jVlcGlbb FORTNIGHTIsV 

A Fortnightly Journal of Literature, University Thought and Event. 



VOL. IV. 



MONTREAL, MARCH i8, 1896. 



No. 12 




^ EDITORIAL BOARD ^ 



Editor-in-chief— T. Mullin (Law ’96). 

Secretary — J. C. Robertson (Arts ’96). 

Harri Dell (Comp. Med. and Vet. Sc. *96). Wm. McDougall (Sc. ’96). 

W. H, Mowatt, B A. (Med. ’96). Miss W. J. Pitcher (Donalda *96) 

Dr. R. Tait McKenzie (Graduates Society). 



^ BUSINESS BOARD ^ 

S. G. Archibald (Arts ’97), Chairman. 

Edgar N. Armstrong, B.A. (Law ’97). Miss M. Hutchinson (Donalda ’96). 
Wm. Prodbrick (Med. *96). J. W. Bell (Sc, *97). 

J. J. McCarrby (Comp. Med. and Vet. Sc, '96). 

The McGill Fortnightly is published by the Students of the University 
on the Wednesday of every second week during the College Session. 

The annual subscription is $1,00, payable strictly in advance. Remittance to 
be made to the Chairman of the Business Board, 113 McKay Street, Montreal. 
Single copies may be obtained at Wm. Drysdale & Co.'s, E. M. RenouPs, Cyrus 
Ashford’s, Chapman's and W. Foster Brown's, Booksellers. Price, 10 cents. 

Address Contributions to Editor-in-Chief, 105 St. Hubert Street, Montreal. 



EDITORIAL COMMENTS. 



VALEDICTORY. 

With this issue, Vol. IV. of the FORTNIGHTLY is 
completed, and the labors of the present Editorial 
Board come to an end. While it is undoubtedly a 
relief, especially at this trying part of the session, to be 
free, yet it is not without regret that we sever our con- 
nection with our College journal. The work has not 
been uncongenial,and it has been a very great pleasure 
to do this year, as best we could, that portion of the 
work which has fallen within the sphere of the 
Editorial Board. We have a lively sense of the 
defects attending our work, and we need scarcely say 
that we fully appreciate now the difficulties in the 
way of carrying on an enterprise of this kind. The 
fact that students, and especially Final Year men, can 
only spare a comparatively small portion of their 
time from their sessional tasks, and that, therefore, 
their work must be hasty and defective, is a consid- 
eration, but not the most important ; the chief diffi- 
culty is to meet satisfactorily the wants and wishes 
of our readers. It is necessary to produce a paper, 
first of all, that will satisfy the undergraduates ; one 
they will take a living interest in, look forward to> 
welcome when it comes, read, contribute to, and, most 



important of all, subscribe for; to suit all, from Fresh- 
man to Final man, is an almost impossible task of 
itself Then we have our professors, graduates, etc., 
and general readers, and, lastly, it is most essential 
that our Journal should adequately represent the 
noble institution whose name it has borrowed, and be 
able to hold its own with those other college journals 
with which we exchange in Canada, the States, and 
over the sea. In view of these considerations, we 
feel that the captious reader will be inclined to show 
us some indulgence. 

One feature of our policy, however, we have 
adhered to from the beginning, — the Undergraduates 
have been our first consideration. The Fort- 
nightly is and ought to be, first of all, a student’s 
paper ; a studentibiis siudentibusque. 

Pursuant to this policy we have inserted in each 
issue, besides the Class Notes, one or two articles 
specially designed to relieve the hard worker and 
afford the necessary relaxation. This idea, we have 
reason to believe, has been appreciated by the 
students. The columns of the Fortnightly were 
thrown open to the students, and while more contri- 
butions might have been sent in, yet we are not 
inclined to complain, as, in this respect, we have been 
generously supported, many excellent articles having 
from time to time been forwarded to the Board. It 
is to be hoped the students will continue to do this in 
future. The Fortnightly ought to be of some 
practical advantage to the students, not only as 
affording them entertainment and instruction, but as 
a medium through which to convey their thoughts 
and sentiments on many matters, and to give them 
ample opportunity of cultivating their literary abili- 
ties. 

While, therefore, it is with sincere pleasure that the 
Editorial Board can announce that the Fortnight- 
ly leaves their hands, as it came into their hands, in 
a prosperous condition, they are not without hope 
that certain changes may be made in the future which 
will be still more satisfactory to the students. It 
has been suggested that McGill ought to be repre- 
sented in the literary world by something heavier 
than the P'ORTNIGHTLY. We concur in this view. 
The splendid monthlies and quarterlies received as 
exchanges incline us to the belief that the University 
of McGill is not doing herself full justice in the eyes 



228 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



of the world. Nor are we apprehensive that the 
Fortnightly would suffer by the establishment of a 
McGill Monthly or Quarterly. The strong meat 
contained therein would be perhaps out of place in the 
Fortnightly, nor would it be contributed to this 
paper in any event ; while that literary ability of a 
high order, which is at present lying dormant, but 
which undoubtedly exists in the higher intellectual 
circles of McGill, would be brought forth, to the great 
advantage of the students and the public, and to the 
honor of the First English University of the Province 
of Quebec. 

It is to be hoped we will have a McGill Monthly 
or a McGill Quarterly, as well as a McGill Fort- 
nightly before very long. 

It only remains to extend our sincerest thanks to 
those graduates and others, friends of McGill who 
have contributed to our columns during the session. 
Assuredly to them may be attributed in large part such 
success as the FORTNIGHTLY has met with this year. 

We especially appreciate the kindness of Principal 
Peterson, whose good nature has not unfrequently 
been tried, we fear, in the Board’s anxiety to secure 
full reports of those lectures and addresses which have 
formed a most interesting feature of this year’s vol- 
ume. But all our requests have been most courteous- 
ly acceded to. 

And nothing less than ingratitude could prevent 
our mentioning Mr. Henry Mott, Assistant Librarian, 
who has never failed us, and to whose scholarly pen 
the Fortnightly from the beginning owes so much. 

The Fortnightly next year will be under the 
control of the following Boards : 

Editorial Staff. 

Francis J. Laverty (Law ’97). 

S. G. Archibald (Arts ’97). 

Miss L. A. Young (Donalda, ’97). 

(to be elected) (Medicine). 

B. A. Sugden (Vet. Science). 

G. R. McLeod (Science). 

Business Board. 

H. Marler (Law, ’98). 

M. C. Heine (Arts). 

Miss M. B. Carr (Donalda, ’98). 

J. B. McRae (Science). 

(to be elected) (Medicine). 

J. C. Moore (Vet. Science). 



CONTRIBUTIONS. 

UNIVERSITIES OF HOLLAND. 

There are four Universities in Holland. The Dutch 
think that this number is too great for their small 



'land with its population of but 4,600,000. 1 wonder 

what they would think of a country with only a few 
hundred thousand more inhabitants, in which there 
were more than a full dozen of universities. In Canada 
we have an extensive territory, it is true but, even 
allowing for this, our land seems to be much more 
blest with these institutions than is Holland. 

The University of Groningen is in the town of that 
name to the extreme north of the land. The city is 
about the same size as Quebec. Its University was 
founded in the beginning of the 17th century. It has 
not achieved the prominence of the other similar 
institutions of the country, and its number of students 
is comparatively small, not exceeding as a rule 500, 
It enjoys, however, a fine reputation for Modern 
Languages, and is favored by those who expect to 
occupy positions as teachers in the public schools of 
an intermediate or higher grade. Within the last 
few weeks its professor of philosophy has accepted a 
call to Leiden, to occupy the chair vacated by 
Professor J. P. N. Land, who has been obliged to 
retire because of ill-health. 

At Amsterdam is the most recently founded of the 
Dutch higher schools of learning. It dates from 
about twenty-five years since, and is not like the other 
Universities a “ Rijks Universiteit,” or National Insti- 
tution, but is founded and supported by the city 
This may seem a little strange, inasmuch as 
Amsterdam is the capital of the Netherlands. It is 
no doubt due to the fact that the other seats of learn- 
ing are very old, and could not be closed up ; while 
the Staats General did not see its way clear to assume 
the support of another such enterprise- Amsterdam 
Civic University is the second in size, and is attended 
by about 900 students. As might be expected, its 
Medical facilities are the great attraction to students. 
The other University towns are much smaller, and. 
cannot afford the same clinical facilities as are to be 
obtained in a great place of 400,000 to 450,000 in- 
habitants. The number of medical students is great 
in proportion to that of the other faculties at 
Amsterdam itself, and also in relation to that found 
in the Medical lectures of the other Colleges. One of 
the interesting things in connection with the 
Philosophical Faculty of this University is the 
existence of a chair for the philosophy of Thomas 
Aquinas. It appears to be the one University where 
the Roman Catholic Church is officially recognized 
in such a way, and is, besides, the one where the same 
church has secured most foothold in the Theological 
Faculty, where they likewise have a professorship in 
Systematic Theology. 

It is better to say, in this connection, that here the 
Theological Faculties of the Universities are arranged 
differently to those in Germany, where the Govern- 
ment provides for the teaching of all the Divinity 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



229 



branches. Here, the Government does not nominate 
the Professors of Systematic Theology, but leaves this 
privilege to the individual Confessions, whose 
nomination remains to be confirmed only by the 
State. Thus, independence in the teaching of dogma 
is guaranteed, and thus, too, we find in the same 
Univ'^ersity two or more professors of Systematic 
Theology. In Germany, two professors may teach 
Dogmatics, but hardly at the same time, and, in any 
case, each has upon him the implicit obligation of 
loyalty to the confesion of the Landeskirche. This 
obligation seems to be very slightly felt by the pro- 
fessors, however, for I have heard a German 
theological student complaining earnestly that he was 
required to confess certain doctrines for admission to 
orders in the Landeskirche, and that his professors 
had declared these to be antiquated and erroneous. 

In another respect, the Dutch Theological Faculty 
differs from the German. The former always pro- 
vides for a Professorship in the History of Religions, 
while in Germany no provision of this kind is made, 
nor, indeed, is the subject a favorite one, as it seems 
to be here. By the History of Religions is to be 
understood an historical account of religions — Pagan, 
Jewish, Semi-Christian and Christian the world over. 
If I may be allowed to express a judgment, it would 
be that such a provision to serious reflecting students 
may be of immense value, if the professor himself be 
a serious and impartial historian ; but if either of these 
conditions be not present, I can see an imminent 
danger of a shipwreck of faith, and of a cultivation of 
prejudice, which will pervert the moral vision for 
many a year. 

Now we come to Utrecht, whose University as an 
all-round institution of higher culture is second in im- 
portance to the University of Leiden. Its number of 
students is, however, smaller than that of Amsterdam. 
I am not aware that it has its eminence in any 
particular branch, but it is generally recognizeil as a 
good school, and the citizens of Leiden good- 
naturedly feel toward it as toward a rival who is mak- 
ing a fine race, but will hardly attain to the first 
place. The University building is the finest of the 
four in the Netherlands. It was originally a portion 
of the Cathedral of Utrecht, but it has been long taken 
from its original purpose. The building was restored 
in 1879. As everyone knows who is familiar with 
either geography or history, Utrecht is an inland city, 
and may be said to be the only one possessing a 
University, for Leiden is so close to the North Sea, 
perhaps five miles in a straight line, that it can hardly 
be called inland. 

There is no question as to which is the greatest 
“ hall of learning” in this land. The only Dutch 
University, concerning whose existence the world 
generally is tolerably familiar, is that of Leiden. The 



others are, as has been said, very eminent schools, 
but there are many reasons why the Rijks Univer- 
siteit of Leiden is better known than the rest : it is 
the oldest in the land, being founded in 1575. It has 
connected with it the Royal Museums of Antiquities, 
Natural History, Ethnography, Geology and 

Mineralogy, Anatomy and other national collectio s 
and institutions. Its library is the largest in the 
country, and in the department of Oriental manu- 
scripts and books, one of the few great libraries of the 
world. To us this University is associated with 
thoughts of the great antagonists, Gomar and 
Arminius, and the Arminian Controversy, with Rene 
Descartes the philosopher, with Erpenius the 

Orientalist, Hugo Grotius, writer on International 
Law and on Theology, and others whose names are 
less familiar. We English have an interest in the city 
of Leiden from the fact of the early Puritans having 
made this their asylum from persecution in England. 
It was in Leiden, too, that poor Oliver Goldsmith 
studied medicine, after the church had thrown him 
overboard, though he is not mentioned in the 
traditions as one of those who added fame to his 
Alma Mater. 

The University of Leiden has in the neighborhood 
of 1000 students, of whom three-fifths may be 
reckoned as in Law and Medicine, and two-fifths in 
Philosophy, Theology and the Sciences. The men 
best known among the professors are Tiele in the 
History of Religions, Kern in Sanscrit, de Goeje in 
Arabic, Schlegel in Chinese, and Klinkert in Oceanic 
Languages. The professors in Law and Medicine 
are eminent, but do not have the same opportunity 
as those mentioned to become known in other lands. 
It will be seen that the subjects attached to the names 
given are not such as are generally popular, and the 
isolation of the men in this respect may add to their 
prominence, though there is no doubt that these 
scholars would be prominent under any other reason- 
able conditions. 

Later on, it may be granted us to say something 
about the life of the students, the teaching of the 
professors (as far as we know it), and other matters of 
detail. At present, we have sought to give but a 
few points in relation to these Universities, the train- 
ing homes of scholars whose merits were very 
modestly described by a German profess >r of mine 
when speaking of the College- bred men of Holland. 

“ You know,” he said, “ the Dutch are all very good 
people.” 

Walter M. Patton, 

Leiden, Holland. 



X RAYS. 

The excitement caused by the discovery sprung 
upon the world by Professor Roentgen in the last days 






230 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



of 1895 is already fast subsiding except among 
students of Science. Repetitions of the principal 
experiment have been made everywhere, and described 
ad natiseam. Radiographs of hands, birds, rabbits 
and fish are already an article of commerce. If all 
the coins that have been photographed through wood 
were collected, they would form a respectable com- 
petence. Even the direct applications to surgery 
have become so much a matter of course that they 
cease to excite astonishment ; and the wilder specu- 
lations that were hazarded at first have died away, as 
the nature of the process and the limits of its use- 
fulness have come to be better understood. One 
has to go south of the line nowadays to find a would- 
be photographer of the brain, or a senator who brings 
in a bill to make it illegal to take Roentgen rays in 
opera glasses to the theatre and so enjoy a mean 
advantage over the actors ! 

The main interest is now centred, not in the “ new 
photography,” nor even in its practical applications, 
but in speculations and researches o 1 the nature of 
the X Rays themselves, their connection with 
scientific work on similar phenomena, which led up to 
them, and the possibility that through them wc may 
gain deeper insight into the constitution of matter, 
the nature of high vacua, the ether, and the processes 
going on in it. Before turning to this new field. 
McGill University and its Medical School may allow 
themselves a natural satisfaction in remembering that, 
thanks to the splendid apparatus in the McDonald 
Buildings, it was a simple matter to repeat Roentgen’s 
experiment at the first attempt ; and especially that 
within the first four days’ work — on Feb. 6th — a 
direct application to surgery was made — the first on 
this continent, and the most important that had been 
attempted at that date. 

Professor Roentgen’s discovery follows naturally 
on past work. The dark space next the negative 
electrode, or kathode, of a Geissler Tube, had been 
found by Varley, Hittorf and Crookes, to spread to 
the walls of the tube as the vacuum was pushed to 
the millionth of an atmosphere. It was then seen 
that a cone of dim violet rays diverged in straight 
lines from the kathode, and when they impinged on 
the glass of the tube, made it hot, and made it shine 
with a fluorescent light. These kathode rays could 
drive small windmills inserted in the tubes, were 
deviated by a magnet, repelled each other. What 
could they be Crookes held them to be streams of 
the remainder molecules of gas capable of travelling 
far in the high vacuum before being lost in the 
crowd ; Puluj held they were streams of particles 
torn off the electrode itself ; Hertz and Lenard held 
them first to be molecules ; then, when Lenard, three 
years ago, brought them outside the tube throm^h a 
window of aluminium foil, which proved to be 



pervious to the rays, they were led to believe them 
“ Processes in the Ether,” similar perhaps to ultra 
violet light, by observing their behavior in the ai", 
and in vacua other than that in which they had been 
excited. 

The presence of these rays is recognized by the 
fluorescence they excite; and it was while studying 
them by this means that Profe.ssor Roentgen noticed 
a fluorescent screen lighted up at some distance 
from the Crookes Tube, how kathode rays could 
neither pass through the glass of the tube, nor exert 
their power in air for more than a distance of 6 centi- 
metres. Some hitherto unknown agent was therefore 
at work. The paper in which Professor Roentgen 
described to the Wurzburg Academy the research he 
now instituted is a model of scientific caution and 
accuracy. Nearly all the facts about these rays known 
to-day are to be found modestly stated there. The 
relative transparency of many substances is given in 
a table. The resemblances to light in rectilinear pro- 
pagation and the law of decrease in strength with the 
square of the distance; the points of difference from 
light in that X Rays are incapable of regular reflection, 
refraction, and apparently of interference and polar- 
ization ; the difference from kathode rays, inasmuch 
as they are not affected by a magnet — all is soberly 
described, and a dozen lines given to the curious 
photographs that may be obtained by means of X 
Rays, with the hint of possible applications in surgery. 

With all the ardor of investigation that has been 
spent on the subject since, but little more is known 
to-day. Times of exposure have been somewhat 
reduced. The facts about the X Rays stated by 
Prof. Roentgen have been verified. The shadows of 
bones in the hand have been seen, by using a dark tube 
closed by a fluorescing screen ; but this method was 
freely used by Roentgen in his investigations. It is 
a strange thing that at this moment it is not certainly 
known from what part of the tube the rays come ! 
Roentgen says he proved by special experiments 
(not detailed) that they come from the parts of the 
glass which are made to fluoresce. Prof. Elihu 
Thomson a few days ago detailed an experiment in 
which he took a photograph of an object upon two 
plates placed one an inch or two below the other. 
The lines joining the edges of the shadows meet in 
the kathode itself, which should therefore be the 
source. But in the Comptes-Rendus of F'ebruary 
17th, just arrived, is an account of a similar experi- 
ment communicated to the French Academy of 
Sciences, which seems to prove the positive pole or 
anode in the source. The same journal gives other 
experiments tending to show that there are many 
qualities of X Rays. 7 \t present it must be admitted 
the wh(»le subject is a fascinating riddle. 

Almost the only novel and, to my mind, the most 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



231 



I 

i. 

I 



\ 

m 







interesting fact that has yet been added to Prof. 
Roentgen s original discoveries, is the curious power 
the X Rays exhibit of discharging an electrified 
object. You may protect either the object or 
the Crooke’s Tube by enclosing the one or the 
other in a complete metal case connected to earth — 
a process which would entirely shield each from the 
electrical influence of the other under ordinary circum- 
stances ; yet the Crooke’s Tube will in a few seconds 
discharge the object (less easily if its charge is at 
first positive than if it is negative), and will in either 
case soon reduce it to a certain negative potential 
dependent on the material of which the electrified 
object is made. Here is a striking analogy with 
a well known action of violet light. I look to the 
developments from this point with special interest, 
partly because it supplies a method of studying the 
X Rays at once sensitive and capable of quantitative 
results ; partly because it bears on a suggestion I 
ventured to make at the very beginning, that the 
effects were probably not due to any kind of light at 
all, but were electrostatic in nature and similar to 
those produced in certain cases by ultra-violet light. 

The time has not come yet for any speculation as 
to the ultimate nature of X Rays ; but such authori- 
ties as Dr. Oliver Lodge and Mr. Nikola Tesla have 
by no means yet given up the idea that both 
Kathode Rays and X Rays may be due to sti earns 
of particles of some kind projected through space, as 
may be seen in Dr. Lodge’s recent survey of theories 
on the subject in the Electrician, and Mr, Tesla’s 
still more recent utterances. 

John Cox. 



A REMINISCENCE. 

An interesting incident — one we might say of all- 
absorbing interest at the time to the undergraduates 
of the Faculty of Arts — occurred some years ago at 
McGill. A full account of the same is contained in a 
very venerable and musty MS. which has C(,.me into 
the possession of the Editorial Board. We learn that 
the matter created no end of excitement at the time, 
and that all, without exception, of the Arts men w'ere 
concerned therein. Many old McGill men, reading 
these lines, will remember their ancient pranks, and 
we have no doubt this one in particular will bring 
them far back again to student days under the shadow 
of Mount Royal. 

We gather from the yellow document (very ten- 
derly to be handled), in our possession, that one 
Joseph D — wh— t, then janitor of the Arts building, 
a good heart, and very popular with the students, be- 
thought himself one day of changing his state and 
manner of life, and of taking to himself a wife, which 
indeed he did in due course; and thereupon the stu- 



dents assembled on a memorable occasion, and pre- 
sented him with the under address with all due 
solemnity. The address itself was drawn up by a now 
well known member of the junior bar of this city. 

ADDRESS. 

Mr. Joseph D — wh — t. 

S18,:- 

It has come to the knowledge of the students 
of the Faculty of Arts, that you, Joseph D-wh-t, for 
some time honorably connected with McGill College* 
having *■ r som time exhibited unmistakable symp- 
toms, have at length publicly avowed your purpose 
of entering into matrimony. 

I, having received authority from the students, 
assembled in full conclave, do hereby declare that 
your intention is highly creditable both to yourself 
and the institution with which you are connected. 
Such an intention is both innocent and laudable, and 
has given us all a higher opinion of your enterprising 
spirit and heroic fortitude of soul. 

You will, now, having experienced the dubious 
joys of single life, enter for the first time upon the 
unalloyed pleasures of lawful wedlock. This is right 
and proper. Your multifarious duties have given you 
opportunities of observing the fair sex, you know 
their amiabilities, you have studied their weaknesses; 
you do not, therefore, undertake this enterprise with 
your eyes shut. Permit me to remind you that you 
are entering upon a new and untried course of life. 
It is a knowledge of this fact that has induced us to 
come forward to encourage you with cheering words. 
Moreover, a deep appreciation of your genial temper, 
unflagging industry, high spirit, and moral rectitude, 
as well as a sense of our obligation to you for your 
kind attention in the past leads us to beg you to 
accept this slight token of the esteem in which you 
are held by every student in Arts. 

{Here the Slight Token was duly presented^) 

Several changes in your habits of life will n )w be in 
order. Your means should less lavishly be used for 
purposes of personal adornment, while a considerable 
amount must be expended upon the object of your 
tender passion. You will realize this more fully later 
on. Increa.sed gravity also is becoming to the brow 
of a married man, though unsuited to the unadorned 
temples of the bachelor. 

At night instead of retiring to your lonely chamber, 
instead of seeking the society of friends, or the haunts 
of worldly frivolity, you will retire to the sacred pre- 
cincts of the domestic circle, whose heart- soothing joys 
will render you oblivious to the vexations of life, the 
enmity of foes, and the deceitfulness of friends. And 
should your household cares in the progress of time 
become increased, as is not unlikely, and should your 
offspring arise like young olive branches, surrounding 



232 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 






your path with the innocent prattle of youthful voices, 
it will become your duty to train them up to love and 
reverence McGill and to send them to our Alma 
Mater for intellectual nourishment. 

Yet, why speak of duties? Two youthful hearts 
are about to be joined together, having long already 
been united by the tender bond of affection. Let us 
speak of love; of Hymen the god of marriage, who 
has now appeared among us in visible form. In deal- 
ing with this part of the subject I have found prose 
utterly unable to sustain those higher flights of the 
imagination which are naturally created by its con- 
templation. Having, therefore, invoked each of the 
nine muses, particularly Erato, goddess of amatory 
song, I have essayed in verse that which the capabili- 
ties of English prose utterly refused to undertake. 
Permit me before entering upon my adventuroir, 
flight, from which a safe return is somewhat doubtful, 
to wish you and your bride, on behalf of the stu- 
dents, all that joy and felicity which springs from a 
happy union, good health, and abundance of worldly 
goods. 

{And here the writer^ discarding the clumsy vehicle of 
prose, and spreading forth his poetic wings, breaks forth 
into song in this wise :') 

H} men, the god who serves when lovers wed, 

Had long been missed, and some had thought him dead. 

In vain our Jerseyed youth, upon the field 
Wore spotless pants, with yellow buskin heeled, 

In vain the manly runner’s strength of limb 
Along the track like Hermes seemed to skim. 

Though Cupid oft had wandered up the row, 

Shot darts at maids, and twanged his silver bow, 

ITiough Venus every grace had deigned to fling 
Around the nymphs that haunt the Eastern Wing ; 

Whose heavenly charms with mortal beauty blent 
Had many a Fresh and Sophmore’s bosom rent. 

Hymen, coy god, had rarely been invoked 
Though love held sway his votaries shunned the yoke, 

And long delay hath tenfold fires provoked. 

— But late the god in flowing robe was seen 
With lighted taper gliding on the green. 

It was the hour at which, from learning’s door, 

Donalda’s charms in sweet confusion pour ; 

When all the college ground and classic shade 
A living bowser of paradise is made. 

The silent god was greeted with a smile 
(Such favors ’oft the sterner sex beguile), 

But shame-faced Hymen seeing turned aside 
And in the deepest thickets sought to hide. 

And seemed as with some bitter gvief oppressed. 

Thus urged his eye, thus spake his heaving breast. 

But when along the walk the maidens passed, 

A pensive glance among their ranks he cast. 

Five score he said, “ of maids my lawful prey 
McGill hath snared and held for many a day. 

In vain my minister with barbed steel 
Strikes hearts which only love for learning feel ; 

His fiery shaft just grazes on the heart, 

And flirts, not wives, are products of his art.” 

Thus spake the lying god ; though sure, in vain 
Are Cupid’s wiles, where learning’s precepts reign. 

— The god advanced, and crimson more than wont 
Was mantling gp his cheeks and open front ; 



His clustering locks about his f rrehead clung, 
Around his breast a spotless robe was flung. 

So light his step upon the yielding sod. 

The flowers arose and hailed the nuptial god. 

He scaled the steps, immediate the porch 
Was rosy with the matrimonial torch ; 

The ruddy light in all the halls was seen. 

It flushed the brow and visage of the Dean ; 

Yet, longest in the hall of classics stayed — 

E’en Hymen knows, and loves, a choice old blade. 
Before the door he paused, and gently blew 
A silver horn; abroad the echoes flew. 

The mellow tones divide the gathered gloom. 

And penetrate McGill’s remotest room. 

Up from the Stygian .‘•hades and depths below 
To meet his fate advanced the victim Joe. 

About his mouth a brace of dimples played 
Where once the scorching gas such havoc made. 

But now, w’here then the fiery deluge seared, 

A new grown mop, a glossy berrd appeared. 

1 hrice he essayed, and thrice essayed in vain, 

His faltering tongue confessed a new-born shame 
Before the glittering god subdued and meek. 

Mild was his voice and tamed his wonted cheek ; 
dhen spake the god ; “ My w^ell-beloved son, 

I know thy heart, and know the mischief done. 

Yet think not shame, but honor to you due, 
Thousands have w^ed, and thousands live to rue. 

Let half- starved youths seek wasteful learning’s side. 
My favorite sons shall lead the blushing bride. 
Collect thy soul to act the bridegroom’s part. 

Deep is the wound, yet H>men heals the smart.” 
His woid pronounced, he ended with a nod. 

The trembling building testified the god, 

And all the air was filled with rich perfume ; 

Upon the breeze was heard a wedding tune; 

The matrimonial taper gleamed so bright. 

The mountain’s brow was flushed with rosy light. 



HOBBIES. 

“Blessed is Ihe man that hath a hobby.” 

Lord Brougham. 

“He hath no leisure, who useth it not.” 

George Herbert. 

A man without a hobby is but halfa man. Many 
might feel tempted to controvert this proposition, 
but it would not be difflcult to make out a very strong 
case in its favor. An old adage hath it, “ All work 
and no play makes Jack a dull boy.” Unlike a good 
many old adages, this maxim has more than its a^e 
to commend it. The truth of the statement rests on 
a sound basis of physiology. Nevertheless, there are 
many in this sordid world who never realize its signi- 
ficance until it is too late. While the heart is young 
and the spirits elastic, one is apt to think that all the 
world is his, and so he rushes with all the strength of 
his young manhood into the battle of life, eager in the 
struggle for knowledge, fame, or the “almighty 
dollar.” A rude awakening comes sooner or later— a 
weakened physique, a shattered nervous system, and 
an enfeebled brain hurry him into a premature old 
age. Especially is this picture true of this Nine- 
teenth Century of ours, with all its culture and wis- 
dgm, The struggle for existence has become sq 



McGlLL FORtNIGHTLY, 



233 



keen, the race for life so swift, that the weak are 
hopelessly left behind in the struggle, and those who 
win do so at the terrible cost of ruined health. This 
is proved by the fact that while medical science has 
done wonders in either preventing or mitigating many 
forms of disease, yet nervous diseases and insanity are 
ever on the increase. This can only be explained on 
the principle that we are living too fast. To pay our 
dividends, not only our interest, but our physical 
capital are being expended. Every fibre of our being 
is strained to the uttermost, and not being built like 
the “ wonderful one-hoss shay,” we give way at the 
weakest spot, and our fall is great. 

The wise man realizes this, and here the usefulness 
of the hobby comes in. It is necessary for a health- 
ful, happy life, to have a plentiful supply of useful, 
interesting work, blended with a judicious modicum 
of well-spent leisure. So “ unbending the bow of the 
mind,” as Homer hath it, and enjoying what ought 
to be an otiuin cum dignitate, we pass into the autumn 
of our years with a light heart and a smile upon our 
faces, happy in the realization of a well-spent and 
useful life. This is the spirit that prompted Oliver 
Wendell Holmes, when asked how old he was, to 
reply, “I am eighty-four years young.” This reply 
conveys a solemn truth, and we would do well to 
heed it. 

Many of the foremost men of the day, those most 
active in serving mankind, are yet men of spare 
moments. A life of great activity is not incompatible 
with a useful leisure. 

Leisure does not imply idleness. With many men 
leisure is only a change of occupation, yet none the 
less does it relax the mind and give it the needed 
time for recuperation. Indeed, many men are hardly 
less active in their relaxation than in their work. 
Thus it is that Gladstone, in the midst of active pol- 
itical work, could find time to translate the Odes of 
Horace, write “ The impregnable rock of Holy Scrip- 
ture,” and break many a lance in the field of contro- 
versy. Balfour could spare time from the perennial 
Home Rule question to write the “ Foundations of 
Belief,” one of the most philosophical works of the 
age. Lord Salisbury, in the throes of a political 
campaign, could address the British Association for 
the Advancement of Science upon the tendencies and 
possibilities of modern scientific research. 

Not unfrequently has it happened that through 
their hobbies and their pastimes men have become 
famous, when they might have been comparatively 
unknown had they confined themselves to their 
serious vocations. 

Oliver Wendell Holmes was a physician in active 
practice, and left his mark upon the medical world. 
His work as a teacher at Harvard was so arduous, 
that when asked what chair he occupied at the Uni- 



versity, he replied with his characteristic smile, that 
“ instead of a chair it is a whole settee.” Yet by most 
people he will be remembered as the “ autocrat ” and 
the writer of “The Chambered Nautilus.” Sir John 
Lubbock, though a banker, is chiefly known to fame 
as a delightful writer on Natural History. 

Sir Seymour Haden, a surgeon, is perhaps better 
known as the president of the Royal Society of 
Painter-etchers. 

To go further back, many of the great men in the 
world of letters had some business or profession. 

Dante, Petrarch, and Boccaccio were diplomatists; 
Chaucer was a courtier, an ambassador and a custom 
house officer ; Rabelais was a physician ; Schiller a 
surgeon ; Charles Lamb was a clerk in the East 
India House; Macaulay was Secretary for War when 
he wrote the “ Lays of Ancient Rome.” Grote, the 
historian of Greece, was a banker. Nieburh, the 
historian, was a bank director, and found time to 
master Arabic, Russian, and some of the Sclavonic 
languages. Galileo and Galvani, famous names in 
the realms of physics, were physicians. 

Of the older writers none is more delightful than 
quaint old Isaac Walton. A prosperous linen draper 
in Chancery Lane, it was his greatest pastime to 
hasten away into the country, and by the banks of 
the Lea or the Dove, angle in hand, lure his scaly 
prey from their cool retreats, and muse withal upon 
the beauties of the world about him. A true natur- 
alist at heart was this man of business, and in his 
“ Compleat Angler” he gives us many delightful 
pictures of rural scenes, clothed in quaint but always 
charming language. Truly, his book is a monument 
of pure, refined English, “a well of English undefiled.” 
I venture to quote the following verses to illustrate 
his love of natural scenes and his style of diction ; 

THE ANGLER’S WISH. 

I in these flowery meads would be ; 

These crystal streams should solace me ; 

To whose harmonious bubbling noise 
I wish my angle would rejoice, 

Sit here, and see the turtle-dove 
Court his chaste mate to acts of love, 

Or, on that bank, feel the west wind 
Breathe health and plenty ; please my mind, 

To see sweet dewdrops kiss these flowers. 

And, then wash'd off by April showers ; 

Here, hear my Kenna sing a song ; 

There, see a blackbird feed her young, 

Or a laverock build her nest ; 

Here, give my weary spirits rest. 

And raise my low-pitch’d thoughts above 
Earth, or what poor mortals love ; 

Thus free from lawsuits and the noise 
Of princes’ courts I would rejoice ; 

Or with my Bryan and a book. 

Loiter long days near Shawford brook j 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 






There sit by him and eat my meat ; 

There see the sun both rise and set ; 

There bid good-morning to next day ; 

There meditate my time away ; 

And angle on ; and beg to have 
A quiet passage to a welcome grave. 

Every line here is redolent of the fresh country air, 
and lays bare the inmost heart of the writer, a man 
thoroughly in touch with Nature, and one whose 
purest joys arose from his appreciation of her loveli- 
ness. Old Isaac was in his way a sybarite, but one 
of the right kind. 

Some might say that angling is a useless pleasure 
and a waste of time ; but if it be, as Sir Henry Walton 
calls it, “ idle time not idly spent,” it can be made the 
instrument for affording the purest pleasure. 

For a man jaded with the whirl of city life and 
work, nothing could be better than a few days’ fish- 
ing. It calms the brain and brings man nearer to the 
eternal harmony of Nature ; it affords him profitable 
time for meditation and self-communion ; and if he be 
the right kind of man, he is the better mentally and 
morally for the relaxation. Lixe Walton, he is at 
peace with himself and all the world. 

Another true naturalist, although in another line, 
was Robert Dick, the baker-naturalist of Thurso. 
Only a poor baker, at times barely making ends 
meet, by taking time from his sleeping hours, he 
was able to travel all over Caithness in the north of 
Scotland. 

By stinting his food and clothing he saved enough 
to buy a few scientific books, and made a careful 
study of the flora and the fossiliferous rocks about his 
home. He was the first to prove the existence of the 
Hierochloe borealis, or holy-grass, in the British Isles, 
a fact which all the botanists of his time denied. He 
discovered the Asterolepis, a large fossil fish, and by 
his discoveries in geology Avas of the greatest use to 
Sir Roderick Murchison and Hugh Miller, both of 
whom acknowledged their great indebtedness to him. 
The latter, in his “Old Red Sandstone,” and “The 
Testimony of the Rocks,” obtained facts and observa- 
tions from Dick which were of the greatest value. 
And this humble, uneducated man was acknowledged 

o 

by the leading geologists of the day to be their 
master. All this from his way of grasping the 
opportunity. Like Silas Wegg, he occasionally 
“dropped into poetry.” The following verses were 
so admired by Sir Roderick Murchison that they 
were inscribed in the minutes of the Red Lion Club, 
to which he and the leading geologists of the day 
belonged, and it was long sung at their annual meet- 
ings : 

SONG OF A GEOLOGIST. 

Hammers an’ chisels an’ a’, 

Chisels an’ fossils an’ a’, 

Sir Rory’s the boy o’ the right sort o’ stuff, 

Hurrah ! for the hammers sae braw. 



It’s good to be breaking a stone. 

The work now is lucky an’ b^aw * 

It’s grand to be finding a bone — 

A fish-bone the grandest of a’. 

» ♦ * * 

Hammers an’ chisels an’ a’, 

Chisels an’ fossils an’ a’; 

The deeper we go, the more we shall know 
Of the past an’ the recent an’ a’. 

Here's freedom to dig and to learn — 

Here’s freedom to think an’ to speak ; 

There’s nane ever grumbled to look at a stane. 

But creatures baith stupid an’ weak. 

Hammers an’ chisels an’ a’, 

Chisels an’ fossils an’ a’ ; 

In spite of the devil we’ll dig as we’re able — 

Hurrah ! for the hammers sae braw. 

These illustrations just cited are examples of 
intellectual hobbies. There are many others which 
are more amusing than intellectual. Many great men 
have sought to beguile the tedium of work by occu- 
pations or relaxations of a trivial or peculiar kind, 
Domitian occupied his spare moments in catching 
flies. One of the kings of Macedon made lanterns. 
Charles the Fifth, after his abdication, amused himself 
by making clocks. While Petavius was at work on 
his Dogmata Theologica, his great relaxation was at 
the end of every second hour to twirl his chair for 
five minutes. Spinoza set spiders to fight each other, 
and unbent his mind by laughing immoderately at 
their antics. D’Audilly, the translator of Josephus, 
cultivated trees. Balzac amused himself by making 
a collection of crayon portraits. Erasmus amused 
himself, while travelling in a post-chaise, by compos- 
ing a panegyric on Moria or folly, which, authorized 
by the pun, he dedicated to Sir Thomas More. 
Cardinal Richelieu found relaxation in violent exer- 
cise. On one occasion he and his servant were dis- 
covered trying to see who could jump the highest up 
a wall. Samuel Clark, the great logician, was once 
found jumping over chairs and tables in his room. 
On observing a pedantic fellow approaching, he cried 
out, “Now we must desist, for a fool is coming in.” 
Dean Hole, in his delightful “ Memories,” gives us 
a picture of the hobbies of a clergyman who was 
neither too busy or too dignified to amuse himself 
with out-door sports. He seems to have been in his 
time an all-round athlete, being an archer, cricketer, 
hunter and a gardener. His proclivities in the latter 
direction took the form of growing roses, and he was 
said to have had the best roses in England. Besides 
this he is a charming writer, and in his book gives us 
interesting reminiscences of his early days and of 
people he has known, interspersed with much quiet 
humor and many an amusing story. He was far 
from being a horsey parson, and always takes a 
healthy view of sport. With regard to the question 
whether a clergyman should hunt or not, he tells the 
following story ; 



\f-U 



McGill fortnightly. 



235 



A clergyman, having asked his bishop if it was 
right to follow the chase, received the following 
reply : 

If you can assure me that you can spare the time 
and the money, that you can take a day’s holiday in 
the week without neglecting any of your duties, 
reducing your charities, or getting into debt, you have 
my permission to hunt, on one immutable condition 
— that you ride straight to hounds and if I hear of 
you craning or shirking, I shall withdraw it at once-” 
The bishop evidently believed in doing everything 
with the might, and his permission was of the right 
kind. 

Any hobby that usurps the place of duty must 
be anything but healthful. 

The collecting craze is another form of the hobby 
question. Everything is collected, — bric-a-brac, old 
china, old furniture, pictures, autographs, monograms, 
post-marks, slippers, souvenir spoons, down to postagc- 
stamps, buttons, arM paper collars. 

1 The kodak fiend is another. He “ shoots ” you 

• when you- are off your guard, and perpetuates your 

2 semblance for the amusement of himself and friends 

i 

j — rarely yours. Photography is notwithstanding a 

[ very healthy and fascinating amusement, and affords 
I opportunity for a great deal of taste and dexterity. 

' The best hobbies are the intellectual ones, litera- 
ture, art, music, natural science, those which instruct 
as well as amuse, not only one’s self, but others, those 
which tend to augment the sum of the world’s 
knowledge and happiness. 

^ Those which are mere “pastimes,” and nothing 
t more, must ever take a low place in the estimation of 

j those who are striving to cultivate their higher 

natures and elevate the plane of humanity, who wish 
not, after their short span of life is over, to vanish 
from the stage “ and, like the unsubstantial pageant 
of a vision, leave not a rack behind-” 

A. G. Nicholls. 

GRADUATES’ SOCIETIES. 

I have read with considerable interest the recent 
articles which have appeared in the FORTNIGHTLY, 
both from the pen of Dr. R. Tait MacKenzie and 
from the pen of Mr. Truell, secretary of the Grad- 
uates’ Society in Montreal, 

Whatever is done to bring back into touch with the 
McGill of to-day those two thousand or more grad- 
uates who have been isolated for such a long period 
of time, must certainly be considered an excellent 
movement. 

Speaking from the standpoint of one who is now a 
member of a Society of McGill Graduates which 
made it the first consideration o[ its aim and purposes 
to work in this line, I can safely say that the task is 



one worthy of the undertaking, and worthy e.specially 
of the Institution with which we are so intimately 
connected now, and of which we are also so justly 
proud. 

The vast bulk of the graduates of McGill residing 
in the Ottawa Valley prior to the organization of our 
Society was in no wise aware of what progress the 
University was making, nor fspcaking for them) did 
we feel that we received the consideration at the hands 
of either the Corporation or of the Board of Govern- 
ors to which graduates of any University feel en- 
titled. 

The Montreal Society of Graduates has done a 
great deal to keep the residents of the Metropolis 
together, besides fostering the good purpose of assist- 
ing the University whenever it could, by purchasing 
books, etc , which would materially help our Alma 
Mater. 

Outside of Montreal, the graduates of McGill knew 
little or nothing of what was going on. For a score 
of years a mere handful of graduates were represented 
in the secret councils of the “ Board of Corporation.” 

Wnat was the bulk of graduates doing.? 

The question might very well have been put other- 
wise, and read thus ; — 

Why did not the Corporation of McGill University 
see that her graduates were entitled to a voice in her 
welfare before they would leave Montreal after com- 
pleting their Academic courses, whatever that might 
have been, — in Medicine, Arts, Law or Applied 
Science. 

As one of the two thousand graduates of McGill 
who was allowed to leave the College and Montreal,, 
without even a suggestion to qualify for voting pur- 
poses, I may say that if the University authorities 
had requested me or even asked me to pay the then 
required fee, that would most probably have been 
done. To pay the qualifying fee at the time of grad- 
uation seems to me to be the right thing at the right 
time ; and the amount of trouble which it now en- 
tails to get the McGill graduates together, so as to 
prove to them that the correct thing for them to do 
is to qualify, seems to be almost too great to be pos- 
sible even under the present much less severe and 
more enticing regulations of the “ Board of Govern- 
ors” of the University. 

As one who is in touch with a large number of 
our graduates of from five to thirty years standing 
and more, I can say that it is very difficult to rouse 
an interest in the affairs of the University after so 
many years of separation. 

The formation of our graduates’ society in the 
Ottawa Valley was for this express purpose; and 
this will serve as a reply to Dr. McKenzie’s enquiry 
regarding the “hazy and indefinite” aims of gradu- 
ates’ societies. 



McGiLL fortnightly. 



236 



In a nutshell we can state that the purposes for 
which the Ottawa Valley Graduates’ Society was 
ormed are : — 

1. For social purposes, thereby bringing in new 
members, and bringing them in touch with each other 
and the affairs of the University. 

2. Discussion of affairs appertaining to the welfare 
of the University, e.g., Post-graduate courses, granting 
higher degrees, raising standards. 

3. Urging our members to qualify, and hence have 
a voice in the management of the University. Re- 
ceiving papers, calendars, etc., from time to time. 

4. Seeking to urge candidates to enter the Uni- 
versity. 

5. Keeping ourselves in touch with the progress 
and advance of the University. 

6 . With some of these objects in view, the O. V.GrS. 
has held local exams in Ottawa for the benefit of 
candidates wishing to matriculate in any of the Facul- 
ties of the University. 

7. At our Annual Meetings, the representative Fel- 
lows are requested to send in reports of the points of 
interest which have come under their notice, and have 
always generously responded to this appeal, besides 
supporting resolutions formed and passed at our 
Graduates’ Society meetings. 

We are delighted to see other graduates’ societies 
rising in the land. ^ 

For years past our Society has been agitating the- 
formation of such. I agree with Dr. McKenzie in 
the lines of work which he has indicated for grad- 
uates’ societies. Several others might be indicated 
but they come more immediately under the general 
head “good and welfare” of dear old McGill. 

We are glad to note the recent action of the 
“ Board of Governors ” of the University in allowing 
graduates to qualify for the sum of $2.50, at the same 
time placing to their credit such sums of money as have 
been paid by them up to $2.50. In this wise many grad- 
uates of long standing not qualified to vote, i.e., to take 
an interest in University affairs, are now for the first 
time since Convocation, when they graduated, called 
upon to take an active part in seeing that proper r-e- 
presentatives are sent to be “ Representative Fellows ” 
to the Board of Corporation. 

There is a great deal for Graduates Societies to do, 
when the welfare of “ Old McGill ” is at the bottom 
of all their acts and doings. 

Agitating until all the graduates of McGill are 
brought into touch with the University ought to be 
one of the aims of all the now organized Graduates’ 
Societies. Whether that is to be accomplished by 
direct appeal to the graduates themselves or by legis- 
lation on the part of the governing body of the Uni- 
versity is a question to be discussed. 

My own opinion is that too many years have already 



elapsed since the bulk of McGill graduates left her 
Halls. McGill graduates are now scattered all over 
the face of the globe, and whilst legislation on the part 
of the Governing body of the University may not be 
the ideal course to pursue, yet it seems to me to be 
the only practical and efficient course. 

Implicit faith in the good work performed by the 
University, faith in the Constitution of McGill 
University, together with a just pride in the achieve- 
ments of her professors and sons (as well as of her 
daughters), should stimulate us to do all we can to 
advance her interests wherever we happen to be 
placed after we graduate from those dear old halls. 

Ill Cooper Street, ' Henry M. Ami. 

Ottawa, 12th Feb., 1896. 

POETRY. 




TO JULIAN. 

♦ 

My memory has treasures rarer far 
Than aught that life can hold for me, in all 
The dim and distant future ; for the pain, 




Come to your mind a vague sweet memory 
Of that one day ? — the river rushing down 
Its rocky bed, to a still crystal pool 
Upon whose grassy banks we sat and dreamed 
Of all the joy the future had in store 
F or us alone ? And when again the night 
Spread her cool shadow o’er us, and the stars’ 
Pure radiance fell about us, still we dreamed ; 
Around us in the silence faintly rose 
The perfumes of the flowers, in the large 
Old-fashioned garden where we sat, and still 
The rush of waters came to us from out 
The stillness of the night ; the whole wide world 
Seemed to us then to hold but only two 
Of human kind — those happy two, ourselves ; 
And when the time came — all too soon, alas ! 
When we must part, e’en as we said farewell 
The gladd’ning thought came to us both, that as 
This day had been, so should our whole lives be 
In the bright future that with joy we’d planned, 
Peaceful and quiet, far from din and strife 



McGiLL FORTNIGHTLY. 



237 



Of the great world, and where we could be all 
Unto each other. Little dreamed we then 
Of the long weary days that must be, ere 
We two should meet again ; nor how, even when 
We met at last, the changes that were wrought 
In each of us should keep us to the end 
Asunder. Yet, I would not, if, indeed 
By simply willing, I could have it so, 

That, in exchange for our one joyous day, 

Riches, fame, happiness itself, be mine. 

Unless, as in that time, hwere with you, dear. 

My memory has treasures rarer far 
1 ban aught that life can hold for me, in all 
The dim and distant future — So, farewell ! 

M. G. W. 



A STUDENT OF TO-DAY. 

1. 

Upon the Campus brown and bare 
He stood that man of giant frame. 

And faced a sturdy set of men. 

Who knew his power at such a game. 

His eye was keen, his tackle sure, 

He played with judgment, strength, and .skill 
Did honor to the red and white. 

And to the name of “Old McGill. 

% 

2, 

Within the ball-room bright and gay 
He stood, that man of giant frame. 

And smiled upon a lady fair 

Who knew his power at such a game. 

His eye was bright, his voice was sweet. 

He danced with lightness, grace, and skill. 
He wore the red rose and the white. 

Pinned with the crest of “ Old McGill.’’ 



WITH MY SUBSCRIPTION. 

Every fortnight comes a message 
From the heart of Old McGill ; 
Every message waking memories 
Stirs me with a happy thrill ; 

Every thrill is but the echo 
Of the days that swiftly flew 
When w’e w^orked and played together, 
Royal lads of *92. 

Every thrill to me is precious. 

Every memory dear and kin I, 

Every message welcome ever, — 

Please, enclosed, a dollar find. 



SOCIETIES. 

THE UNIVERSITY CLUB. 

The first Annual Meeting of the McGill University- 
Club was held in the Arts building on Thursday, 
the 1 2th March, at 8 o’clock p.m„ the President, Mr, 
Rogers, in the chair, there being present a fair attend- 
ance ofundergraduates. The meeting having been call- 
ed to order, the President introduced Mrs. Murray, who 
in a short speech explained her position with regard to 



i the Dining hall known as “ The University Club,” 
I and informed the meeting that it had been definitely 
decided to keep the dining hall open until the ist 
of April, 1897, in order to see whether the students 
would support it sufficiently to justify its being kept 
; up permanently. 

j The business of the meeting was proceeded with, 
namely, the receiving of the reports of the secretary 
and the treasurer. 

Mr. W. L. Bond moved, seconded by Mr. Colby : 
“ That the annual meeting be adjourned till the first 
P'riday in October ; that a provisional committee be 
elected now to hold office and take such steps as they 
deem advisable for the best interests of the Club, 
til! such adjourned meeting ; and that the subscrip- 
j tions already paid in be held over as annual subscrip- 
tions for the coming year, unless demanded back by 
the subscribers.” 

Mr. E. E. Howard moved in amendment, seconded 
! by Mr. Hickson, that the words “provisional com- 
mittee” be struck out and the present executive con- 
tinued in office instead. The motion as amended 
was carried, and the meeting then adjourned till the 
2nd day of October. 



GRADUATES’ SOCIETY McGILL UNIVER- 
SITY. 

A special meeting for the nomination of Represen- 
tative Fellows was held at No. 844 Sherbrooke 
street, loth March, at 8 p. m. Nominations were 
made as follows : 

In Law, Alex. Falconer, B.A., B.C.L. 

In Arts, F. W. Kelly, Ph.D. 

In Applied Science, Frank D. Adams, Ph.D. 

In Comparative Medicine, M, C. Baker, D.V.S. 

In Medicine Dr. Finley declined re-nomination, in 
order that an opportunity mi >htbe given the Ottawa 
Valley Graduates’ Society to make a nomination. 

Dr. Finley having been an extremely useful mem- 
ber of Corporation, and having served but one term^ 
a hearty vote of thanks was accorded him for his past 
services and for the sacrifice he was making. 

An invitation having been received from the New 
York McGill Graduates’ Society to the first annual 
dinner to be held on the 7th April, it was resolved that 
the invitation should be accepted, and that the presi- 
dent, Dr. Adams, should represent the Society. 

The Secretary, H. V. Truell, read two letters from 
W. J. McGuigan, M.D., secretary of the McGill 
Graduates Society of British Columbia, announcing 
the formation of the Society, and expressing the 
thanks of the graduates in that Province for copies of 
the Fortnightly sent out by the Montreal Society. 



MCGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



238 



A. R. Holden, B.A., S. Carmichael, B.A., B.C-L., 
N. Keith, B.A., and Dr. Wade were duly elected 
members of the Society. 

Dr. Adams and Dr. Kelly each gave a highly inter- 
esting report of the doings of Corporation. 

Among others present were : Dr. Colby, Dr. R. Tait 
McKenzie, Mr. Francis Topp, Mr. F. W. Hibbard, 
Mr. C. H. Gould, Miss Derrick, Miss Reid, Dr. E. H. 
Blackader, Dr. Wesley Mills, Wellington Dixon, N. 
Keith, as well as representatives of the Montreal 
Hera a n d t h e M o n t re a 1 Gazette. 

UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY. 

On Saturday night, the 2nd instant, streams of 
people might have been seen steadily wending their 
way towards the Physics Building, while now and 
again a laden cab drew up before the brightly lighted 
doors. 

The cause of this unwonted activity was the closing 
lecture of the Undergraduates’ Literary Society. 

It has been the custom from ti,me immemorial for the 
Literary to close its sessions with a lecture by one of 
our professors. This year a new departure was made, 
and the lecture, an illustrated one, was thrown open 
to the friends of the members. 

The lecturer was Professor Moyse ; his lecture 
“ Ecclesiastical Architecture.” 

The President of the Literary Society was in the 
chair. It is impossible to give an adequate idea of 
the lecture, but it is hoped that the following few 
notes will convey to the reader some idea of the in- 
teresting nature of Professor Moyse’s remarks. The 
lecturer first showed some very beautiful Moorish 
slides, and touched upon the Moors. He then passed 
to his subject proper. 

Ecclesiastical architecture takes its rise in the 
Roman Basilica. From this comparatively simple 
structure the lecturer sketched the different phases of 
church architecture to the Decorative and the Per- 
pendicular styles. 

The Court of Diocletian at Spalato gives us one of 
the first examples of the arch connecting pillars; this 
arch appears in later buildings under the name of the 
Norman arch. The arches are short and semi- 
circular. 

Cathedrals are generally built in the form of a 
cross ; in the East the cross copied is the Grecian, in 
the West the Latin form is followed. 

Rome gave to Europe letters, law and architec- 
ture of the Romanesque type. The early Romanes- 
que type is found best developed in the Hartz moun- 
tains. Before passing on to examples of different 
styles as shown in English cathedrals and churches, 
the lecturer made some remarks on a beautiful slide 
showing the interior of St. Sophia in Constantinople, 



The beautiful structure is a series of domes. Whe 
Justinian had finished, he exclaimed that he hac 
outdone Solomon. The building is now the head 
quarters of Islam. 

St. John’s Chapel in the Tower of London show^ 
the marks of its time very painly. The short, stou' 
pillars, surmounted by heavy, semi-circular arche 
which in turn support the roof, are arranged in a wa 
not far different from the pillars in a basilica. Th< 
Norman, though an arch was named after him, dij ■. 
not create any great type in architecture. [ • 

A beautiful slide of Durham Cathedral brough| , 
that pile, half house of God, half castle “ 'gainst tho 
Scot ” vividly before us. ; 

That cathedrals were not the work of a year or q , 
decade was clearly shown in the next slide, that of th<| 
Cathedral of Aix-la-Chapelle, under the roof of which', 
lies the body of Karl the Great. Part of this build- 
ing is Byzantine in character, while the choir, which . 
is Gothic in style, dates 500 years later. 

The Cathedral of Exeter, with its two towers where 1 
the transepts should be, the Crypt of Westminster, \ 
the transept of Winchester were all shown and com- I 
mented upon. i 

Rochester Cathedral is interesting, in so much as j 
it contains a Perpendicular window in an earlier front, 
thus showing that windows often give wrong impres- 
sions as to the date of a building. English churches 
do not copy cathedrals as Continental churches do, 
but have generally a form of their own. 

From Norman Gothic architecture we pass to Early 
English Gothic architecture. j 

The distinctive mark of the Early English Gothic ; 
may be, and in fact generally is, the pointed arch. , 

However, no hard and fast rule may be dogma- ) 
tically laid down, for as periods in literature overlap ^ 
each other, so do periods in architecture. 

Glastonbury Abbey, which was one of the largest , ' 
in England, destroyed by Henry VIII., belongs to > 
this Transition period, as also does Fountains 
Abbey. 

It must not be forgotten how much we owe to 
these abbeys and monasteries, for they in the 
Dark Ages, kept alive the arts and the sciences. 
They also served as inns, as hospitals, as alms-houses 
and dispensaries. 

The slide of Salisbury Cathedral was a very beau- 
tiful one. The Cathedral is low and long, with a 
spire that can be seen at a distance of 30 miles, 
springing up to the height of 404 feet. 

Lichfield, with its two western and one central 
tower, is note-worthy, for the fact that in this build- 
ing we see the idea of covering the front with 
statues, which idea is carried out to an extravagant 
length in some Continental cathedrals. From the 
Early English Gothic we pass to the Decorative 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



230 



Gothic, which may be seen in great beauty in Exeter 
Cathedral. The angel choir, which is transitional, 
lying between Early English and Decorative, is an 
exquisite piece of work. The cloisters of Gloucester 
are the earliest instance of the English Perpendicular 
style with its beautiful fan vaulting. 

King’s Chapel, Cambridge, is the best example 
of our English Perpendicular style, which, indeed, is 
the special glory of our architecture. 

In this connection, after a short comparison of 
English and Continental cathedrals, the lecturer 
read a sonnet of Wordsworth on King’s Chapel, — a 
tribute of a poet in verse to a poet in stone : — 

“Tax not the royal Saint with vain expense 
With ill-matched aims the Architect who planned — 
Albeit labouring for a scanty band 
Of white-robed scholars only — this immense 
And glorious work of fine intelligence ! 

Give all thou canst ; high Heaven rejects the lore 
Of nicely-calculated less or more ; 

So deemed the man who fashioned for the sense 
These lofty pillars, spread that branching roof 
Self poised, and sccoped into ten thousand cells. 

Where light and shade repose, where music dwells 
Lingering — and wandering on as loath to die ; 

Like thoughts whose very sweetness yieldeth proof 
That they were born for immortality.” 

The lecture was listened to with great attention, 
frequent bursts of applause evincing the keen interest 
taken by all present. At the close of the evening a 
hearty vote of thanks was moved by Mr. E. Edwin 
Howard, B.A., Law ’98, seconded by Mr. Edward M, 
Campbell, President of Arts ’97, carried unanimously 
by the audience, and conveyed to the Lecturer by the 
President of the Society in a few well-chosen words. 

ScRiBus Senior. 



MONTREAL VETERINARY ASSOCIATION. 

A regular meeting of the Association was held on 
Thursday evening, the 5th inst. The vice-president, 
Mr. E. C. Thurston, occupied the chair. 

After reading the minutes of the previous meet- 
ing, the secretary read a communication from Dr. T. 
A. Rowat (’87) of Honolulu on “ Paracentesis Abdo- 
minis,” which gave rise to a lively discussion on peri- 
tonitis in the horse, Drs. Martin and McEachran also 
participating. 

Mr. C. H. Higgins, B.S., furnished an interesting 
case report of “ Traumatic Lesions in a Cow,” and Mr. 
S. Charles Richards followed with a paper on “Acute 
Specific Pleurisy.” 

These papers evoked enthusiastic discussions on 
the part of the members, and were closed by the chair- 
man in a most creditable manner. 

Mr. Patterson will read at the next meeting. 

H. D. 



SOCIETY FOR THE STUDY OF COMPA- 
RATIVE PSYCHOLOGY. 

The last regular meeting of the above Society for 
the session of ’95 and ’96 was held on Monday even- 
ing, 2nd inst. The chair was occupied by the presi- 
dent, Dr. Wesley Mills. 

The routine of general business over, Mr. Craik, ’96, 
favored the Society with an “Essay on Brain Work and 
Education.” This was listened to with wrapt atten- 
tion by those present, and elicited a lively discussion. 

Mr. Matthews, ’97, followed with an able paper on 
“ Migratory Instincts of Animals,” in which were pre- 
sented the various theories regarding this form of ins- 
tinct, along with some original ideas on the subject, 
reflecting very creditably on the writer. 

Mr. Wallis, ’98, followed with a carefully written 
paper which evidenced much originality of thought 
and manner of presentation. 

Mr. Spanton, ’98, dealt with the subject of “ Intel- 
ligence of the Dog.” Being a fancier and an extensive 
breeder, his opportunities for a study of the psychic 
characteristics of that animal having been taken ad- 
vantage of enabled him to treat his subject in a most 
instructive manner. 

Dr. Mills then gave a pleasing account of the recent 
meeting of the American Psychological Society which 
he attended, and at which he read a paper on “ Fur- 
ther Observations on the Psychic Development of 
Young Animals.” 

Meeting then adjourned. 

H. D. 

McGILL Y. M. C. A. 

The reports presented at the Annual Meeting of 
the Association have just been printed. Those who 
have not received copies may do so by calling at the 
Secretary’s office. 

Sir William Dawson spoke before the Association 
on Sunday, March 8th, on the subject “ Christ’s Tes- 
timony concerning Himself.” There was a very 
representative meeting. 

Mr. Tory will be in charge of the remaining 
meetings this term. 

The final meeting will be addressed by members 
of the graduating classes, and promises to be of spe- 
cial interest. 

The meeting will be resumed after the Easter 
holidays, and will be continued during the summer 
term for the benefit of those taking the summer ses- 
sion. It is earnestly hoped that the attendance will 
be large. 

Y. W. C. A. 

At our meeting of P'ebruary 21st, Miss Binmore, 
M. A., addressed us on the subject of “Our Gra- 
duates Abroad.” She gave some account of Mrs, 



j 



McGill fortnightly. 



^40 



ReiJ’s work in Africa. The need was emphasized of a 
greater number of missionaries to preach the Gospel 
to its many heathen souls. The most effective way 
to appeal to the women seems to be through their 
love for their own children, thus leading them to 
hear of the deeper love of a Heavenly Father. 

On February 28th, Miss Radford, B. A., took up 
the subject “The Spirit, the Comforter.” The verses 
were taken from St. John xiv. 16-26 and xvi, 7- 
13. She spoke of the peace and comfort in all our 
Lord’s promises, and the Holy Spirit, which is with 
us not only outwardly and in our daily life, but 
dwells within our own hearts. 

The subject of the meeting of March 6th was 
“ Complete Salvation,” our leader being Miss Smith. 
The lesson was taken ferm Philippians Hi. 7-14 and 
20-21. The main thought was upon the worth- 
lessness of all earthly righteousness, and our need of 
the true Spirit of Christ. 

A 2 

The regular meeting of the Delta Sigma Society 
was held on Thursday, February 27th. Miss 
Bourkewright read an essay on Leonardo da Vinci, 
which was thoroughly enjoyed by everyone. 

The essay was more than a sketch of the artist’s 
life, it gave an insight into the working of his genius, 
which was often producing most when he was appa- 
rently idle. 

Photographs of some of his pictures, among 
them one of the great master himself, were passed 
round, and added very much to the interest of the 
essay. 

Miss Finley read an essay on Beethoven, illustrat- 
ing it by playing a duet with her sister, and one or 
two movements alone. 

The music was very much appreciated, as the 
enthusiastic encore showed. 

It is to be hoped this will form a prelude to a 
series of musical essays. 

GLASS REPORTS. 

ARTS NOTES. 

Fourth Year. 

After lecture on fossils. 

L . — “ Names ! names ! names ! ” 

McI . — “ Sticks and stones may break your 

bones, but names will never hurt you.” 

A query of general and individual interest: “How 
many new hoods will be required for Convocation 
day.?” 

The appointment of Mr. John Todd, ’98, to repre- 
sent the Arts Undergraduates on the Athletic A.sso- 
ciation, meets with general approval. 



If it were not for the fact that we have apostolic 
authority for the statement that “ The tongue can no 
man tame ; it is an unruly evil,” we might venture to 
hint to several young gentlemen that the library is a 
sacred place where silence is supposed to reign 
supreme. In the light of apostolic pessimism, how- 
ever, we can only allow ourselves to bewail that the 
“ perpetual motion problem” should have been so 
completely solved by the aforesaid young men. 

Third Year. 

The Exams are at hand. Everything comes to us 
as question, question, question. (Little comes as 
answer, but we’ve a fortnight yet.) Who knows any 
Mechanics.? Unless Dieu tempere le vent aux brebis 
tondueSf we’re all goners. Isn’t Latin Prose a snap ? 
O yes, I don’t think. Who knows any Zoology .? How 
far can the pulex irritans jump .? The only animals 
we can classify are asses, goats and jays, and it might 
seem rude to “ spot” them here. Who said Rasselas 
was a fake .? I did. Who can read this line in Chau- 
cerian English : — “ I knew my name was mudde when 
my gallus button brokke” .? Show that word “ mudde’ 
is derived from the French parley. Lucky we always 
get Nicholson’s Hydrometer and the Myxomycetes 
to describe. What is the use of memorizing specific 
gravities and hardnesses for an exam .? Ten days 
study to write five minutes and forget for a life-time. 
Then amid all this furore we are told to write an essay 
each. 

A — w is all right ; he is going to write on “ The 
influence of Thackery on the Renaissance.” 

B — y will probably write on “ Hair-Combs.” 

Ye gods, ye gods. What ajumble in the mind of 
man about the twentieth of March ! 



It is with pleasure that the reporter notices the 
election of Mr. S. G. Archibald, ’97, the chairman 
of the Business Board, to the Editorial Board of the 
Fortnightly. Mr. Archibald is probably as well’ 
read a student as McGill can produce at the present 
time, and his natural abilities, together with his 
experience, make him eminently the right man in the 
right place. 



Second Year. 

Professor about to begin a lecture on seeds, as he 
passes around specimens of the bean family. — “ In 
order, gentlemen, that no one may accuse you of not 
knowing beans, we will begin, etc. 

Now, just a parting word of advice to our Freshies. 
Everybody knows that when a team wins a game 
it was through theother side’s poor playing ; certainly, 
that is almost a truism. It was clearly demonstrated 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



' 



24 r 



in our second game with ’99- They again played so 
poorly that ’98 beat them four to two, which conclu- 
sively shows that if ’98 wish to meet something worthy 
of their steel they must in the future play with those 
whose actions give some backing to their words. 



“98 always blow their own horn.” Truly our friend 
has stated a trite and well worn saying, and I presume 
he is not so unfamiliar wdth the Odyssey as to be 
unable to give us an explanation. He no doubt is 
familiar with the futile attempts of the suitors of Pene- 
lope to draw the mighty bow which only yielded to the 
master hand, and need I carry the comparison further.^ 
Who “ could” blow our horn ? The skill and power 
of Triton even would fail to produce the silvery 
cadences — echoes of worthy acts which fall from the 
horn of ’98. 



THE POET’S dream. 

I was sitting in the library one bright and sunny day, 

When reading o’er my Pliny I gently dozed away. 

Of course I fell a-dreaming, — true poets always do, 

Just like the poet’s poet and old Dan Chaucer too. 

The gentle hum of the Freshmen turned to a swarm of bees, 

And the rustling of the Donaldas to the wind among the trees. 

The squeaky boot of the Sophomore brought the mill wheel back 
again, 

And the whispering of the Fourth Year changed to the whispering of 
the grain. 

Then the quiet of the Juniors brought a peaceful sleep to me. 

When Mr. Mott awoke me and asked for the Pliny Key. 

A. K. T. 



THE SCRIBE’S FAREWELL. 

’Tis done ! My last report is gone, 

My life as scribe is NIT 

Yet may I say a short farewell 
Before I have to quit ? 

I fear I’ve caused the other side 
Some bricks at me to fling ; 

But still I — truly — would not harm 
A feather of our Wing. 

I fear I’ve roused great Ninetysix, 

I’ve awed green Ninety nine, 

Of course I’ve squelshed our Soph’mores ‘‘ bold” 

In every other line. 

I believe I’ve asked the Hodograph 
To mend its “crooked” ways ; 

Tho’ now I cannot see through things 
Like the Roentgen rays. 

And so forgive if ever I 
Did wiite a note of you 

That could, by its sarcastic tone, 

Clog this — our last adieu. 

Adieu to all who’ve scanned these lines 
To those who’ve skipped them too. 

To all but Blessed Exams I wish 
Adieu, a last Adieu ! 

S. P. Q. 



LEGAL BRIEFS. 

Mr. V. Evelyn Mitchell has been unanimously 
elected Valedictorian for the class of ’96. The honor 
is certainly well deserved. Mr. Mitchell’s course has 
been an exceptionally brilliant one, he has ever taken 
the keenest interest in the affairs of our Faculty, and is 
in every sense of the word well worthy of represent- 
ing it before the public at Convocation. No better 
man could have been chosen for this important post, 
and Mr. Mitchell has our sincere congratulations. 

At a meeting of the students some days ago, Mr. 
Francis J. Laverty was elected to the Editorial, and 
Mr. Herbert Marler, to the Business Boards of the 

I 

McGill Fortnightly. 

Prfoessor . — “ I will commence my lecture at four 
o’clock.” 

Student . — “ At four sharp, sir ?” 

Professor , — “ Not at all. In the case of such a sharp 
young man it would be unnecessary.” (Loud applause 
from the Freshmen.) 

The lectures in Constitutional Law, in which we 
have lately been so interested, have been put to a 
very practical use. The want of a written constitu- 
tion has long been felt as almost a necessity by the 
Faculty of Law. The unwritten constitution under 
which we have so long existed, though in some ways 
satisfactory, has in many proved very defective. It 
has been much too easy to suspend the operation of 
its laws, especially those regarding the order to be 
observed in lectures and at meetings. The imposi- 
tion of taxes has not been in the past regulated in 
the orthodox way, and the lack of prerogative writs 
— such as those of Prohibition, etc. — has been at times 
a great grievance. 

Mr. Bond has proposed an ingenious scheme to 
remedy these defects. We are to have a written 
constitution, one without flaw of any kind, which will 
be reverenced in all ages by successive generations of 
Law students. A committee of constitutional experts 
was appointed to draw up the proposed body of rules, 
and included Senators Mullin and Gamble, Messrs. 
Mansor, Laverty, Duclos and others. 

The proposed constitution has been framed and 
introduced as a bill, but has not yet passed its second 
reading. The debate promises to be interesting, as we 
understand that Mr. Herbert Marler has some serious 
objections to advance. It is believed, however, that 
the anti-constitutional party will be in a large minor- 
ity. 



There is a young fellow called S n 

Who, through work, has become very thin. 
His voluminous notes 
Fill all his great coats, 

Which cover him up to the chin. 



2/\2 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



There’s a popular fellow named (W e) 

Who is under a horrible blight. 

When he happens to yawn, 

(Which he does off and on) * 

His whole face goes clear out of sight. 

FEATHERS FROM THE EAST WING. 

With this issue of the Fortnightly seventeen of 
our most “constant readers” say good-bye to their 
college paper. Not but what they will peruse its 
pages in the future ; but when it has ceased to record 
the achievements and witticisms of the members of 
the Class of ’96, their interest is not apt to be the 
same, and an occasional reading will satisfy all but 
the intensely loyal. For youth, we are told, is egois- 
tic, and naturally most enjoys that which concerns 
itself. 

Other hands than ours will henceforth keep the 
“ Feathers ” in trim, and with the new editor and 
her reporters we leave the hope that they may have 
as large a measure of enjoyment as we found in the 
work, and greater success. 

Of the seventeen about to leave the sheltering 
“ wing ” of their Alma Mater, seven have been toge- 
ther at school and college for seven years, and three 
for eight ; so that the separation will be no light 
thing. Counting up years in this fashion, and look- 
ing forward to another sort of life makes Proctor’s 
petition seem especially ours at this time : — 

Touch us gently, Time ! 

WeVe not proud nor soaring wings ; 

Our ambition, our content, 

Lies in simple things. 

Humble voyagers are we, 

O’er Life’s dim unsounded sea, 

Seeking only some calm clime — 

Touch us gently, gentle Time.” 

But we would not steal all the thunder from our 
Valedictorian, and so, with a repetition of good 
wishes to our successors and a “ farewell ” to the 
Fortnightly, we will finish out the report ere the 
page is turned upon Donalda ’96 once and for all. 

The following are bona fide instances of the state 
of mental confusion which exists in some, otherwise, 
well ordered minds among us, due, we believe, to the 
approaching intellectual ordeal : — 

W. — “ Are you not very much pressed for time of 
late ? ” 

V. — “Yes, indeed. No time at all for Socialism.” 

W. — “What are those sliding drawers at the end 
of the library for ” 

X. — “ Why, don’t you know The professors and 
lecturers get their mail there.” 



Each alternate Tue.day dieary, as I ponder weak and weary 
Over many a book of long forgotten lore, 

Comes a presence clos^ behind me, as of Fate about to bind me 
To a duty where it finds me, lacking, lacking as of yore. 

’Tis your class report I’m seeking,” saith the Spirit, ‘‘ as of 
yore ; 

Only this and nothing more.” 



SPRING NOVELTIES. 

Recent dreams among the Juniors show startling 
spring effects. The leading shades are misty grey 
and dull green, sometimes relieved by pale or even 
bright rose colors. 

One dream recently reported was a novel and 
bewildering combination of Mechanics and French. 
This appeared to the weary eyes of a wan Donalda ; 
before her floated the vision of.an examination paper 
in Mechanics with an ominous N.B.— “ II fautque les 
reponses soient ecrites en fran^ais. 

Another wandered through a gloomy forest of 
antediluvian times, in frantic search for a root whose 
medicinal powers should reveal to her its modern 
derivative. 

Nor was this the worst. Another imagined her- 
self pickled in “ evil-smelling ” alcohol, with fifteen 
vindictive soldier crabs under the tutorage of the 
twelve foot Macrocheira Raemperi holding council 
as to the development of her cerebrum. 

The Junior who will affect the rosy garb in the 
coming season dreamt that she went to study her 
metaphysics by a purling brook. But soon fell into 
a deep slumber, and found herself caught up into the 
seventh heaven where the weary cease to study and 
it is always May. 

The members of the First Year regret that Mon- 
day is no longer a red letter day in regard to their 
Latin Prose ; their papers now fall into other hands. 

COMPARATIVE MEDICINE CLASS NOTES. 

This being the last issue of the FORTNIGHTLY, we 
take this opportunity of thanking those who have 
assisted us in the compilations of the class reports. 

The task has not always been an enviable one ; — at 
times it has seemed that there really were no items 
forthcoming — then at the last moment some kind 
friend came to the rescue. 

We extend to our successor, Mr. B. A. Sugden, our 
most hearty congratulations on his election, feeling 
confident that during his term of office the Faculty will 
have a representative most worthy. 

As for ourself, we will henceforth speak in the first 
person singular. 



Y. — “ Have you seen the photograph of F'lorence 
which hangs in the English room 

Z. “ No — er — Florence who, did you say 



Faculty news is at a premium these days, and the 
reporters fail to respond to the pitiful appeals of the 
editor. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



243 



The Second Year men desire to express through 
these columns their great appreciation of the labors 
of Drs. Scane and Cameron, in their behalf. 

The appearance of the class picture is eagerly looked 
for. We would suggest a “ before and after” picture 
as an innovation of interest. 

One of our professors has cards out for a reception 
to be held in his office previous to examinations. 
Nearly every student will be there. 

Second Year. 

A Final man carries his watch in his hip pocket. 
Asked the reason, the answer is “ in order not to be 
behind time.” 

Positions Wanted : Apply to ’96 men. 

Jimmy is “ steeling” himself for his leave-taking ; 
but oh ! the broken hearts that will be left behind. 

For Saie :^otes on Chemistry. Apply to . 

Much indignation exists among the students over 
the remarks of one of our professors on the 
“ demoralization, etc.,” he claims to see among the 
men at this trying season. 

The general impression is that under the peculiar 
circumstances the remarks in question were 
undeserved. 

Owing to the increasing lack of reciprocity between 
this country and our cousins across the line, we some- 
times wonder how a case of “ swelled head” from the 
Third Year will pass inspection at the border. 

SCIENCE NOTES. 

FREEDOM’S PLAINT. 

(With Apologies to Dr. Drummond.) 

Long tim w’en I was leetle boy I*m pass troo college groun’ 

Dere’s not so many building den but nice pat’ all aroun* 

Me an’ some n’oder fellow too go dere and climb de tree 

An’ eat de haw an den sometime ole H^rb^rt he’s catch me 

I dont tink den some day I’m come for be a student grand 

Dere was no science building den but now she’s all tr^s bon 

Well I’m come up to Molson hall for pass dose hard h’exam 

Den to de Science building go an look roun’ for long tarn 

Oh lots of desk with c/ean varneesh an’ great beeg place for draw 

An fifty hundr’ beeg machine an lots more tings I’m saw 

An den I go upstair again where I am see de boss 

Oh he’s de great big clevaire man an nice box hat all gloss 

Well bimeby I’m troo all de h’exam an’ in de spring some more 

An’ den I’haint no more freshee but ver smart sophomore 

Well lots of Oder smart yoong man pass h’all de h’exam like me 

The third year she is all dead snap but structure th^orie 

She’s snap you tink you gay freshee you tink you’re nn'ghtee smart 

Wait till de boss he’s put for you de horse before de cart 

He’s say sometime he’s see you speak to some oder fellee 

He’s say Hey ! what you talk for you ? you better (nlk wit me,” 

An’ den you got some question for ask in chaptaire [wo ? 

Non ? ’’ an he’s say Den I’m suppose you know de whole ting troo 
Sometime he’s say in nice kind voice Hey ! you beeg man from Hull 



What for you come witout your gown like one beeg fool .sea gull ? ” 
Perhaps he’s say dis article she’s sure for de h’exam ” 

He’s say dat six time in one week de h’exam she’ll take long tarn 
Bimeby one day our president he’s mak’ de noise en classe 
De boss he’s say you fellow h’act like great beeg sheep or h’ass 
Some fellow don't know any more d’an w’en d’ey’re first come ’ere 
Dey mak’ beeg noise and plaintee talk but dey sure get pluck dis year 
I know de man w’at ’s mak’ de noise he’s like for make de shout 
But nex’ tarn he’s don’t mak’ no noise i’ll put de whole class h’out ” 
Well dat is all I’ll tole you now I’m go on home for cram 
In spring you come see me I’ll tell all bout de spring h’exam. 

Freedom^ ’97. 

About the ist inst, Mr. G. D. McKinnon was 
suddenly called to his home in Charlottetown, where 
his father is seriously ill. Mr. McKinnon has the 
sympathy of the whole Year, and although he cannot 
return this year, we hope to hear of the speedy 
recovery of his father’s health. 

We are pleased to see Messrs. J. E. McDonald and 
F. H. White back to lectures again after their recent 
illness. 

Mr. F. W. Thompson has safely reached Boulder, 
Col., and is evidently having a good time. By this 
time he has likely gained favor with the ladies, as he 
has already taken the affirmative side in a debate, 
held in Boulder, subject : “ Resolved, that women 
have the right to vote.” We hope that the change 
of climate will so improve Fred’s health as to enable 
him to resume his studies here again next year. 

An individual who has infested the Testing Lab. 
for sometime supposes that “mild steel" is “ petty 
larceny.” This may account for the conversion of 
certain tested specimens into paper-weights. 

Reading Room. 

Enter Wr — ht. — “Say, you fellows, I’ve a great 
gag out in the hall.” 

B — 11 (from magazine). — “ Well, why didn’t you 
put in your mouth.” 

If you wish to show your appreciation of the lec- 
ture don’t pull out your watch fifteen minutes after 
its start. 

If we are to judge by the number of accidents we 
have had lately, ’97 will not turn out many elevator 
experts. 

DRY WIT. 

Voice. — “ Who has a monopoly of this tow^el } ” 

Tr — is. — “ I’ve got a corner in it.” 

Prof. N. — You should all learn to wTite with both 
! hands. In olden times men fought with the sword 
in either hand ; and now' that the pen has taken the 
sword’s place, I do not see why you should not be 
able to change over when one arm gets tired. 



244 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Prof. B. — “ Get information. Beg, borrow, or steal ; 
but get it.” 

McB — n. — “ May we do so in exams. ? ” 

Prof. B.— “ Yes, certainly; but don’t get caught.” 



Given ; — A tin can with a hole in the bottom, a 
piece of string with a large knot on one end and a 
small bit of rosin. 

To equate these so as to give a result equal to 
C — ms — I’s laugh. 

Prof, (on being shown that a connection has come 
undone). — “We have been trying to do the impossi- 
ble.” (Makes connection) “ Now we will try again.” 



First Aspiring Electrician. — “ What are you read- 
ing ” 

Second Aspiring Electrician. — “ Current litera- 
ture.” 

Civil bystander. — “ That’s very revoltuigC 



It is getting near exam-time, but we are not 
going to tire the already over-wrought brain of the 
reader with ghastly visions of what may happen, 
though it is quite an effort to refrain from doing so. 
It saddens the reporter to think that this is the 
last batch of notes he will contribute, in his official 
capacity at least. But it has its bright side as well. 
The public will feel relieved to know that they will 
have no more heart-rending “ joaks” to put up with, 
and for the same reason the reporter can once more 
walk the earth a free man. Fare thee well, reader. 
I will see thee at Philippi. 

The Third Year sustains yet another loss, Mr. A. 
B. Newcombe has been summoned home owing to 
the sudden death of his mother. He has the s)^m- 
patliy of his class-mates and of the whole Faculty in 
this sad bereavement. Mr. Newcombe’s home is in 
Kings Co., Nova Scotia. 



EXCHANGES. 

The Educational Review for the Atlantic Provinces 
of Canada is published in St. John, N.B. Its editor- 
in-chief, George U. Hay, is the Principal of the 
well known “ Girls’ High School ” of that city, 
and in his hands this Journal has steadily grown 
from very meagre proportions, until now, in the 
ninth year of its existence, it ranks side by side 
with the leading educational periodicals of Canada 
or the United States. 

The Argosy of Mt. Allison College, Sackville 
N.B., is a neat little monthly, but scarcely what we 
might expect from an institution that has been grow- 
ing by leaps and bounds during the last few years. 



It is perhaps not very wise to institute comparisons, 
but we think that some of her sister colleges in the 
Maritime Provinces are still considerably in advance 
in regard to College Journalism. 

Knox College Monthly continues to occupy the 
prominent position which it has formerly held 
among our exchanges. The number for February is 
pretty well filled up with solid reading matter, as the 
following list of its contents will sufficiently indicate 
“ The Great Temptation,” 

“ A Good Prose Style.” 

“ The Theology of Ritschl.” 

“ The Right of Typology,” etc., etc. 

These are rather too heavy subjects to satisfac- 
torily digest just now, with examinations so near at 
hand, and doubtless the readers of this column will 
not seriously object if they are passed over in silence. 

The Collegium is published monthly by the 
students of St. Dunstan’s College, P.E.I. For the 
benefit of those who may not be familiar with this 
name we have referred to their College announce- 
ment, and find that “ St. Dunstan’s is annexed to 
Laval University,” and has a teaching staff of ten 
professors, who, through modesty,* or possibly to 
obtain uniformity in the list, or for other reasons, do 
not place any letters after their names. The Collegium 
takes for its motto: “ Great Oaks from Little Acorns 
Grow,” and from the general style of some of the 
articles, it would seem as if the writers had concluded 
that they were already full-grown. Here is the 
opening sentence of one of them : “ On that 

calamitous day when Eve put forth her erring hand 
to pluck the fruit of the Forbidden Tree, God’s 
fiat went forth, and Death with all its concomitant 
ills and miseries entered into the world to mar the 
happiness of the human race.” 

Another writer discusses “The Tractarian Move- 
ment and the Question it Suggests : Will England 

yet be Catholic } ” 

Occasional numbers have also been received of 
the Andover Mirror ^ Normal Light and Le Journal 
des Etudiants ; but want of space prevents any ex- 
tended notice. 

We have also to acknowledge the courtesy of the 
editors of the following City papers in regularly send- 
ing us the Daily Gazette, Daily Herald, and the Daily 
Globe of Toronto, to all of whom we extend our 
thanks for this much appreciated mark of kindness. 

We cannot close this column without a brief 
refeience to the Canadian Magazine of Toronto, 
which has also been given to us in exchange. 

The rapid advance of this magazine during the 
past few months must be a source of satisfaction to all 
who are desirous of having a distinctively Canadian 
magazine worthy of the name. 

There may have been a time when the chief 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



"4 5 



reason urged in order to obtain subscribers was, that 
it should be supported because it was Canadian ; 
but that time is certainly in the past, for it is now of 
such a style and character that it has outstripped not 
a few of its class in the United States, and demands a 
front place solely on its own merits. 

The illustrated sketches on “ The Men who made 
McGill,” by A. H. U. Colquhoun, B. A., and on 
“ Photography Extraordinary,” by F. Tillemont 
Thomason, make the March number of special interest 
to all McGill students. 

And now at last we have arrived at the end of the 
list. During the past months it has been our privi- 
lege to receive regularly nearly forty different College 
publications, all of which have at some time during 
the session been referred to in these columns. 

It has been a genuine pleasure to read them, and 
thus become somewhat familiar with College life out- 
side the domain of our own Alma Mater ; and if this 
column has failed to reflect any of that interest, it 
should be attributed, not to any scarcity of suitable 
material, but to the selfishness of the writer (or the 
printer ? ) which kept back much that might have 
afforded pleasure to the general reader. 



READABLE PARAGRAPHS. 

“ Let dogs delight to bark and bite ; 

To do so is their fate. 

They can’t be tamed; they never learned, 

You see, to arbitrate ” 

— Washington Star. 



TWO PROFESSIONS. 

He. 

“ You ne’er can object to my arm round your waist, 
And the reason you’ll readily guess, 

I’m an editor, dear, and I always insist 
On the ‘ Liberty of the Press. ’ ” 

She. 

“I’m a minister’s daughter, believing in texts. 
And I think all the newspapers bad ; 

And I’d make you remove your arm were it not 
You were making the waist places glad.’’ 



DISCREDITED TESTIMONY. 

A former constituent of Mr. Reed’s from up in 
Maine, but who now lives in Arizona, called upon 
the Speaker the other day, and of course mentioned 
the fact that his adopted home would expect state- 
hood from this congress. 

“ Well,” said the speaker, “ what are your claims 
for statehood ” 

After reciting the wonderful resources of the terri- 
tory, the caller closed with a brilliant eulogy upon 
its climate. 

“Tut!” said Mr. Reed. “Now come down. 1 
have been out to Fort Yuma, and the weather is so 
hot that should one die there he would never dis- 
cover his change of climate. 

VERY COMPLIMENTARY. 

A certain eloquent bishop had preached to a coun- 
try congregation, which owing to bad weather, was 

very thin. 



After the service, one of the churchwardens, who 
had been struck by the sermon, but felt that it had 
been somewhat thrown away, remarked — 

“ On such a day your lordship might ha’ gien’ us 
a wusser sermon.” 

“ If your lordship could have given us a wusser,” 
put in the other churchwarden, who wished to be very 
complimentary indeed. 

The following adv’ertisement appeared in a Bir- 
mingham newspaper recently. It speaks for it- 
self — 

“ \ TIOLIN taught at 6d per lesson. Bun and a glass of milk 
V included.” 



OBLIGING. 

A canny native of Aberdeen, while on a cheap 
trip to the modern Babylon a week or two ago, wan- 
dered into the famous thoroughfare that once bore 
the name of Petticoat Lane, and stopped for a 
moment outside a second-hand clothes-shop to exam- 
ine a coat which was hanging up near the door. In 
an instant the enterprising Hebraic proprietor was at 
his side, and asked him if he would not step inside 
and try on a coat. 

“I dinna ken but what I wull, ” responded the 
Aberdonian, consulting an enormous watch, and in 
he went and set to work. No matter how often he 
found his fit, he tried on another and another till he 
had tried on upwards of thirty. Then again looking 
at his watch, he resumed his own garment and walked 
off, saying — 

“ Weel, I’ve lost time nae doot, but hang the fel- 
low that’ll no obleege anither when he can ! ” 



CRITICIZED HIS OWN WORK. 

One day Leoncavallo was in Forli visiting, when 
his “ Pagliacci ” happened to be given. Thinking 
no one knew him there, he bought a seat and went to 
hear his own composition. Next to him sat a pretty 
girl who wildly applauded everything. He naturally 
was very quiet, enjoying his supposed incognito im- 
mensely. Finally his neighbor turned to him and 
said : 

“Why don’t you applaud .!* Don’t you like the 
opera ” 

“ No,” replied Leoncavallo, “ I don’t like it at all. 
It is the work of a beginner, to say nothing worse.” 

“ Then you know nothing about music,” observed 
his fair neighbor. 

“ Oh, yes I do,” and to prove his statement he 
began a discussion on counterpoint, showing, also, 
wherein Leoncavallo’s music was worthless, almost all 
of the arias having been stolen from Beethoven, Bizet, 
and others. His neighbor listened silently, and when 
he finished, she asked : 

“ And this is your real opinion .■* ” 

“ Certainly.” 

Next morning the composer was stunned to read 
in the morning paper, word for word, his criticism of 
the dav before under his own name. His sweet 
neighbor was the musical critic of the paper, and had 
recognized him at once, taking that way to secure a 
creditable “beat .” — Chicago Evening Post. 



246 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



SPECIAL NOTICE 

To Graduating Classes, 1896, and to the Deans of 
the different Faculties. 



The attention of the members of the Graduating 
Classes of McGill for 1896 is directed to the exis- 
tence of the following Societies of McGill Graduates : 

MoGill Graduates Society of New York. 

R. A. GUNN, B.A.Sc,, Secretary, 

64 West 23rd Street, NEW YORK. 

McGill Graduates Society of Toronto, 

R. B. HENDERSON, B A , B C.L , Secretary, 

TORONTO, Out. 

McGill Graduates Society of British Columbia, 

W. J. McGuigan, M.D., Secretary, 

VANCOUVER, BC. 



Ottawa Valley Graduates Society, 

ALFRED E. BARLOW, M.A., Secretary, 

OTTAWA, Cnt. 

Graduates Society of McGill University (Montreal;, 

H. V. TRUELL, B.A., B.C.L., Secretary, 
Temple Building, 

186 St. James St., MONTREAL. 



Members of the graduating classes are cordially 
invited to unite with these Societies, and the Deans 
of the respective Faculties are respectfully requested 
to lay the claims of the Societies before the members 
of the Graduating Classes, before or on the occasion 
of Convocation. 



of St. JjiiiiFS Catho- 
(Iral and Professor of tlie 
Piano and Organ 



Pelletier 





^ r. 



J ^ • 










/ 




'Af F * AF 

A; ^ ■ 

rA.: 

t i-r 

fOt.c ^'****^- f / 

it' A 



^ /t^ / M 9^ t \ 






A., A. y. '‘-/'fzi 



A 

^ r 

<-A S A 



y — 



■//. 













/ 



'A. 



^4. 4LAt. 



.1^ £■<- Ar 

‘/i 



TRANSLATION. 

Montrkal, 28tli November, 1893. 

Mu. L. K. N. PUATTE, Mon'real : 

Dkau Sir.— T he upright pianos of your make— if one may form a 
judgment from the one 1 have acquired— possess a combination of all the 
qualities esteemed by musicians, a liquid and singing quality of tone entirely 
free from all overtones and rumbling sounds so frequently found in upright 
pianos, a touch so light and elastic as to answer to the most vigorous attack 
and the lightest pressure, — in fact, capable of the most varied en'ects. Allow 
me to congratulate y<)U on your good work. 

Yours, etc. K. Oct. Pelletier. 



It is only necessary to know ihe delicjite and conscientiems artist 
who has written the above letter to form an idea of the high value of 
such an opinion. have a large assortment of PRATTE Pianos, 
similar to Mr. Pelletier’s, as we manufacture only one size and one 
quality. 

Prices reasonable. Terms easy. Old instruments taken in e.xchange 

PRAttlE PIANO GOi notre dame $t. 




PATERSON & FOSTER 

““^^Reicliert's Microscopes 

Acknowledged 10 be ihe beat line in the Dominion 

Used in the Ba. tciiological I,aborator:es of ihe STAINS and ACCESSORIES 

Royal Victoria and Montreal General Hospitals '** IN STOCK 



DISSECTING CASES, SKELETONS, SKULLS, STETHOSCOPES, THERMOMETERS, 

And all Students’ Requirements 



GET OUR QUOTATIONS 




21 Phillips Square, MONTREAL 



