VOL. I., No. 4. 



TERMS: $1.00 PER ANNUM, IN ADVANCE, 



McGill college, Montreal, January ist, 1874. 



^uivcrgilji ^ociciji. 

We unfortunately have not the space to give any adequate ac- 
count of the Society’s transactions during the month. On the 
19th instant, Mr. Jenkins, who, by the way, is an old McGill man, 
lectured before the Society on the “ Satirists of England.” His 
lecture w’as a rare intellectual treat, and from all who were pre- 
sent, we have heard the same account, that his lecture was among 
the best the Society has ever presented to the public of Mont- 
real. Some exception was taken to the subject of his lecture, in- 
somuch as he confined himself to Butler and his Hudibras, and 
•did not speak of any of the other satirists of England. On the 
22nd, a public debate was held in Association Hall. The sub- 
ject was — “ Should the people of Canada look forward to Inde- 
pendence ; or, to a Federation of Great Britain and self-govern- 
ing Colonies?” and the speakers were : on the affirmative, Messrs. 
N. W. Trenholme, M.A., B.C.L., and R. C. Fisher, B.C.L. On 
the negative, Messrs. D. McMaster, B.C.L. 7 and G. E. Jenkins. 
The President, J. J. Maclaren, M.A., B.C.L., gave his annual 
address. Mr. S. C. Stevenson gave a reading. At the close of 
the meeting, Mr. Jenkins spoke a few words on the subject of 
debate, advocating the same views which his pamphlets on the 
“ Centralization of the Empire” enunciate. We regret that lack 
of space renders it impossible for us to give an analysis both of 
Mr. Jenkins’ lecture, and of the arguments at the public debate. 
In regard to the Society’s disagreement with Mr. Redpath, of the 
Literary Bureau, it is evident to all who have read the correspon- 
dence in the public prints, that Mr. Redpath was guilty of a j 
breach of contract. 



gg @ollcc,e 

Nominally there exists in the Arts Library a reading-room ; 
but not of such a character as to lead any one to walk over to the 
library for the purpose of seeing any of the antiquated files of 
such interesting reading as the Journal of Education, and kind- 
red publications, which cover its tables. But perhaps the title of 
reading-room, as applied to it, is somewhat misleading. The 
purpose for which the room is intended is this: In winter the 

library is too cold to allow any one to consult the volumes on its 
shelves, — and, indeed, at all times it would not be convenient or 
expedient to allow free access to it, -—and this smaller loom, 
which we call the reading-room, is used as a reading-room for 
the books in the library, not for the papers which are on its tables. 
In fact, as the name is generally used, it is not a reading-room 

** 3 It*is hardly necessary to say much in favor of a reading-room 



per sc. The advantages are apparent to all, and in McGill the 
students, by force of circumstances, would be led to use it more 
than they do in other colleges. Nearly every class, on some days 
of the w eek, have to pass spare hours — that is, hours which in-* 
tervene between lectures, and which the students now generally 
fill in any way the caprice of the moment suggests. We are con* 
fident that if there was a reading-room it would be used at such 
times, and in those other intervals between college hours ; for 
instance^ many Sc ience students remain at the college fro m tweh^> 
to two, and they would only be too glad To have the opportunity 
of passing that long interval in a pleasant room where an abund- 
ance of periodical literature would be at hand to afford instruct 
tion, or to give relaxation from their studies. It is not our intern 
tion to say anything more on this part of the question ; the 
instances cited above are only two of the numerous ones which 
will be suggested to the mind of every student, and we will now 
show that, to us at least, the project appears perfectly feasible. 

The College subscribes for a number of periodicals now, the 
reviews, and several scientific and technical periodicals. Our ex* 
changes, too, would be at the service of such a reading-room ; and 
a very small subscription from each man in college would be suffi- 
cient to procure all the leading periodicals of Britain and Ame- 
rica. We are inclined to think that the Faculty, judging from the 
cordial manner in which they have met our proposals in the past, 
would do everything in their power to aid our project ; and it only 
remains to give this suggestion an actual existence, concerted and 
immediate action on the part of the students, and we trust that a 
meeting will be called, and subscriptions collected before the first 
week of the term goes by. 

- We have only called attention to this subject without attempt- 
ing to support our position, that a reading-room is advantageous 
and easily attainable, by any arguments, thinking that the mere 
stating of the case will be sufficient to gain the support of all our 
students who are most deeply interested in the inception of a 
project, the advantages of whieh we are sure have been suggested 
to each one of them. In the February issue of the Gazette we 
hope to have the pleasure of announcing that the room is open, 
and that all the students are enjoying the opportunities of self- 
improvement it will undoubtedly offer. 



We understand that a secret society, similar to those in other 
American colleges, is now being formed in our midst. We are 
unaware what foundation there is for the report, not having heard 
the names of those interested. 



Since the death of Dr. Smallwood, Mr. C. H. McLeod, 
B. A. Sc., has taken temporary charge of the Observatory. 





28 



McGILL UNIVEKiSlTY GAZETTE. 



[January 1 st, 




Everyone, in Canada at least, has read Lord Duft'crin’s “ Let- 
ters from High Latitudes,” which made us familiar with his name 
and caused us to admire him as a graceful writer, long before lie 
came among us as a Governor-General, and gave us occasion to 
admire those other traits of character, which, in the capacity of 
author, he had no opportunity of displaying. It is not the intention 
of the writer to review Lord Duffer in’s book, but thinking that 
fchc readers of the Gazette would be interested in the account of 
a much earlier voyage to the same region, this article will be a 
resume of a paper read before the Literary and Historical Society 
of Quebec by Dr. Douglas, who, in the year 181S, went as sur- 
geon of a whaler, to the same seas which Lord Dutferin in the 
“ Foam” visited in 1S56. 

On the 13th of March, 1818, the whaler “Trafalgar,” Dannatt, 
commander, sailed from Hull to penetrate to the whaling grounds, 
which were then far within the Arctic circle. On board was a 
crew of thirty-six men. After having mustered them, the King’s 
officers paid over the bounty of £300, and exempted the dutiable 
stores on board from the excise, and on their part, the owners en- 
gaged to carry and man seven boats carryi ng seven men each, the 
captain filling up the crew by the addition of 18 Shetlanders, 
when they arrived at Lerwick, seven days after leaving Hull. 
While here the ship was prepared for the hardships she was to 
undergo ; royal masts were struck, studding-booms and gaft-top- 
sails were added to her ordinary rigging, so that she could be 
handled by a few men when in the ice, and most significant of 
her future occupation, the 44 crow’s nest,” to protect the lookout 
When in high latitudes, was being prepared ; when it was finished 
he says it looked very nice and cosy, but to landsmen the cosiness 
of a contrivance to sit on the top of the mainmast might not ap- 
pear so obvious as to the writer. Here, too, while waiting for a 
fair wind, they had forced on their attention the dangers of their 
undertaking. The 44 Prescott,” whaler, in attempting to beat 
out, went ashore in Brassa Sound and was totally wrecked. 

On Sunday, the 1st of April, they started North with a fair 
wind, which held until the 7th ; next day it blew a hurricane, but 
'he “ Trafalgar” staggered 011 until on Good Friday, the 9U1, they 
ut time with ice, — at first -only thin sheets, called 
by the sailors 44 pancakes,” but gradually increasing in thickness 
as they 44 bored” into it, until they stopped at night among cakes 
too thick to allow of farther progress. At this time they were 
72 0 N., but entangled in the ice, and the gale continuing with a 
heavy swell on, the ship laboured so hard, and was in such dan- 
ger from beating against the ice, that on the nth they beat out to 
sea to prevent her being crushed. About noon the sky cleared, 
and they found themselves close in to the island of Jan Mayen, 
discovered, according to Lord Duffcrin, by Fotherby in 1614, but 
as other authorities say, by Jan Mayen, a Dutchman, in 161 1. 
Lord Duflerin thus describes his approach to it : “A few minutes 
more, and slowly, silently, in a manner you could take no count of, 
its dusky hue first deepened to a violet tinge, then gradually light- 
ing, displayed a long line of coast— in reality but the roots of 
Beerenberg— dyed of the darkest purple, while, obedient to a com- 
mon impulse, the clouds that wrapt its summit gently disengaged 
themselves, and left the mountain standing in all the magnificence 
of his 6,870 feet girdled by a single zone of pearly vapour, from 
underneath whose floating folds seven enormous glaciers rolled 
down into the sea. Nature seemed to have turned scene-shifter, 
so artfully were the phases of this glorious spectacle successively 
developed. The glaciers were quite an unexpected element of 
beauty. Imagine a mighty river of as great a volume as the Thames 
— started down the side of a mountain — bursting over every imped- 
iment-whirled into a thousand eddies— tumbling and raging oa 
from ledge to ledge in quivering cataracts of foam -then sudden- 
ly struck rigid by a power so instantaneous in its action, that even 
the froth and tleeting wreaths of spray have stiffened to the im- 
mutability of sculpture.” 

The “Trafalgar” was in search of whaies, not of the pictuiesque, 
and before nightfall stood away from the dangerous vicinity of the 
island. The writer makes an allusion to the fate of the unfortu- 
nate Dutch sailors, seven in number, who in 1633, attempted to 
winter on Jan Maven. Lord Duflerin gives a short sketch of how 
thev passed the time, until about the 30th of April, more than a 
fortnight later in the season than when the “Trafalgar * was of! its 
coasts, the last man gives way under the rigours ot its inhospita- 
ble winter. , . . ... 

Three days later a gale from the X. E. drives the good ship 
two degrees southward, but on the iSth they are up to the island 
a^ain, in company with some Dutch sealers, and on the 20th she 
bears away to the North with a good wind, and “boring” through 



streams of light ice. O11 the 23th they arc in lat. 76° 43’ N., 
and as they are in the fishing ground, the boats are all ready and 
a man is stationed in the 44 crow’s nest,” but no whales in sight. 
Unicorns or narwhals, as they are now called ( Mofiodon 1 Mono - 
ccros ), arc in sight, but the crew arc unsuccessful in their endeav- 
ours to harpoon them. They now sec the sun during the entire 
twenty-four hours, but this advantage is counterbalanced by the 
severe cold. On the 28th they saw their first whale. Boats were 
sent out, but just as the harpooner was going to strike, it dived 
and was seen no more. Dr. Douglas adds: “ When wc saw it 
make off, I know that several lookers on distinctly broke the 
third commandment.” O11 the 29th they were off Magdalena 
Bay, on the coast of Spitzbcrgen. “ No vegetation, nothing but 
icebergs (glaciers?), bare black rocks, and a background of icy 
mountains,” is how the author describes his impressions of the is- 
land. He speaks too of glaciers 1,200 feet high, presenting the 
same characteristics which Lord Duflerin describes in the passage 
wc have quoted in connection with those of Jan Mayen. Here 
they are larger. I11 English Bay, where the “ Foam” anchored, 
Lord Duflerin saw an enormous one 1,500 feet high, ten miles 
wide, and thirty or thirty-five long ! He speaks, too, of another 
phenomenon : “ O11 the left, a still more extraordinary sight pre- 
sented itself. A kind of baby glacier actually hung suspended 
half-way on the hillside, like a tear in the act of rolling down the 
furrowed cheek of the mountain.” Not even the attractions of 
the awful scenery of these islands, discovered by Barentz in 159^ 
and visited subsequently by all explorers, could keep our whalers 
there, and they stiil held on their course to the North, now through 
thick ice from which the ship receives severe blows. In it another 
whale is seen, but after a three hours* chase, is lost. Wc fancy, 
had the author been so inclined, he might here repeat his remark 
about the violation of the third commandment. 

On the 1st of May the ship was hailed from immediately be- 
neath her bows, and a moment afterwards Neptune, accompan- 
ied by his consort Amphitrite, came on board. They were re- 
ceived with due honours by the crew, and drawn on a gun-car- 
riage to the stern ; there they descended to the 44 ’tween-decks” and 
after a short speech Neptune, assisted by his Tritons, proceeded 
to initiate all on board who for the first time were then within 
the Arctic circle. All had to submit, and our author only escaped 
by using the key of the spirit-room, which, as the thermometer 
stood at 40 0 below zero, must have added considerably to the 
success of the festivities. In the afternoon two whales were lost. 
A gale from the North, with “ insufferable cold,” brings down the 
ice on the ship, and threatens to close her in. Sail is made to es- 
cape to the South. They pass a polar bear on the ice, but their 
minds are so occupied with their own peril that he is not molest- 
ed. In the evening they think the ship is safe ; but the next day 
they are again in danger of being caught, but again they escape. 
The only chance was between two huge masses of ice slowly ap- 
proaching each other. Into the gap she goes, but when nearly 
through, the pieces catch her stern, — a moment more and she goes 
free, with the loss of both her quarter-boats, “ extremely glad to 
get off so cheaply.” On the Sth they again sailed North in lat. 
79 0 5*Sm. — lost a whale. They struck a piece of ice, but only 
started a few planks. A ship in company was not so fortunate, 
and was seriously damaged. On the nth they were still in the 
same neighbourhood, but no whales. The mate and the author 
visited a Dutch ship, and on leaving, the author with gratitude 
records, the captain presented them each with a bottle of very 
excellent gin. Still no whales fall to the lot of our ship, although 
one or two are taken by some ships in company. 

On the 1 6th they were in lat. 80 0 1 im. N., and he adds : “ The 
two discovery ships last year only reached nine miles further, 
being then stopped by the solid continent of ice.” These discovery 
ships were those of Dr. Scoresby’s expedition of 1S17, in which, 
as the author states, he only reached about 80 0 20m. N. On this 
expedition he explored Jan Mayen, and discovered a small vol- 
cano 1,500 feet high, on the north point of the island, which he 
named Esk. Two of the men fell overboard about this time, and 
in his journal for the next day, the author mentions that he had 
acute inflammation of the lungs. After an immersion in water 
when the temperature was 40 o , it appears to us a wonder 
that the man was alive at all. 

At last on the 20th, after six weeks of disappointment, the} 
capture their first whale. Perhaps their lack of success before 
this will not be wondered at, when we read that six boats were 
sent after it, and it was five hours from the time that it was first 
struck until it finally yielded and was killed. The luck has now 
turned, and the next day another was killed close to the ship. 
He dived and ran out 9S0 fathoms of line ; when he came up he 
was nearly dead. As some of us are fresh from hydrostatics, 



1874.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



29 



they can calculate the pressure of water he experienced at that 
depth. In the next week five others fell to their lot, and all went 
well until on the 31st they were caught in the ice, in company 
with a Dutchman and Aberdeen whaler. On the 2nd of June they 
saw a chance to get out. First the Dutchman escaped, and then 
channels opening up to the “ Trafalgar,” she got out through a 
gradually lessening passage between two tloes. They were safe, 
and looked back to see the fate of the Aberdeen ship. She at- 
tempted to pass through the same channel ; it was too narrow ; 
she was caught and crushed to pieces. “ One of her masts was 
itill upright ; the other, with fragments of the vessel, were being 
piled up among the masses of ice the crew were saved, how- 
ever, and came on board, and the ice still coming down they 
mailed South, and the same afternoon got into a “school” of 
whales and killed four. The crew of the “Diamond,” the wrecked 
ship, went on board two other whalers, and the “ Trafalgar” held 
away to the North, until on the 8th of June they reach the solid 
continent of ice in So o 14', and they then held to the West and 
South. Two days afterwards they captured four whales ; a week 
afterwards the) killed two more, and nearly met with the same 
fate as the “Diamond.” Three days passed with no whales, but 
during that time Captain Dannatt shot a polar bear on the ice, 
and attempted, unsuccessfully, to capture its cub alive. 

The next fortnight brought to them five more whales, enough 
to fill the ship, and they determined to return home. Some of 
the crew met with a rather startling adventure with a bear, the 
account of which we are unable here to transcribe. A sad inci- 
dent, reminding them of the dangers of the sea, was met with as 
they were starting home, — they were surrounded by the remains 
of a wrecked ship, loose spars, doors, etc., and a top-mast bear- 
ing the ship’s name “ Rover of Bristol.” She had not. been a 
whaler they knew, and they surmised must have been a mer- 
chantman driven out of her course and caught in the ice. One 
piece there was suggestive more than all the rest of the struggle 
which proved unavailing between man and the elements. It was 
a rude substitute for a rudder, “ made out of a top-mast and jib- 
boom, with spars fastened across by copper nails, long pieces of 
iron, ships’ bolts, wooden trenails and rope.” The imagination 
■does not need much forcing to picture it as the last resort of a 
gallant sailor in his crippled ship, and on it to build sorrowful 
fancies of the wreck in the Arctic seas, and of the anxious ones 
at home who would never again see the forms now cast away in 
their icy solitudes. Jan Mayen nearly proved the last of the 
“ Trafalgar,” the sudden lifting of a fog showing them their dan- 
gerous position close to its shores ; but she escaped, and event- 
ually arrived safely at Hull, after an absence of over six months. 

Anyone who compares the latitude of the fishing-grounds, 
then occupied by large fleets of ships every season, with that 
reached by exploring parties specially fitted out for cruising in 
high latitudes, cannot fail to be astonished at the daring and 
courage with which these hardy sailors prosecuted their labours. 
Parry, in 1827, reached nearly to lat. 83 0 N., the highest point 
ever reached by man, and yet these whalers have their cruising 
grounds within a hundred and twenty miles of this point, or 
rather they cruise in the highest latitude in which open water can 
be found. This narrative shows incidentally, however, the hard- 
ships and dangers which these gallant sailors habitually encoun- 
ter, and when long experience has shown the dangers which lie 
in wait within the Arctic circle, they continue year after year to 
sail North without a thought of their possible fate. Whale fish- 
ing has existed as a branch of industry since the ninth century, 
when the Danes sent their small vessels to the North. It has 
mainly been supported by the British, Dutch and Americans, 
and it may be fairly assumed that the experience and courage 
gained in the whaling ships, have contributed to support the re- 
putation of these nations jis sailors and explorers ; for the courage 
that will encounter the perils of an arctic voyage, and the exper- 
ience that will successfully overcome them, will united make a 
sailor that will bear away the palm from one trained in a less 
trying school. To call attention to the whale fishery as an exhi- 
bition of courage and endurance, was partly our object in writing 
this article. The modesty, too, of the author is remarkable ; he 
tells of shooting a polar bear with the same lack of ornamenta- 
tion or detail as he chronicles the direction of the ship’s course ; 
and in the narrative, an escape from being crushed in the ice, 
excites less remark than the latitude to which they have at- 
tained. While this taciturnity detracts somewhat from the in- 
terest of the journal, we cannot help admiring the modesty from 

which this reticence springs. . 

Another circumstance influenced us to write this paper; it 
was to call attention to a point presented very forcibly to our 



mind by the re-perusal of Lord Duflerin’s book ; how iii it he 
exhibits in his indefatigable courage and restless searching for 
adventure, some of the characteristics of his class. Cut off in a 
great measure from active employment at home, the British aris- 
tocracy have made themselves a reputation as sportsmen and ex- 
plorers in every quarter of the globe. It is that courage and love 
of adventure that have given us “ The North-west Passage by 
Land,” “ Letters from Low Latitudes,” and many other books 
of the same kind, but few written in so graphic a style, contain- 
ing so much to interest the reader, and so much to^ cause us to 
respect both the head and the heart of the author, as the one to 
which we have referred so often, “Letters from High Latitudes.” 

J. McL. 



ttttdcr 1 

After a summer’s work on the Intercolonial Railway about 
the Rivers Miramichi and Restigouche, we were ordered to survey 
a trial line from Bathurst southwards. It was while thus engaged 
that winter closed in upon us. The name Bathurst is familiar 
to all newspaper readers as the point at which Mr. Fleming 
proposed to connect his “ shortest Mail line to Europe” with our 
Canadian system of Railways. 

Our party numbered in all eighteen, including the cook and 
his assistant. We were provided with three tents — one for the 
engineers and staff, one for the use of the eight axemen and cook, 
and the third a provision store. Our tent, the largest, was a 
ronnd one nineteen feet in diameter and secured in its upright 
position by four poles slightly inclined towards the top and fitting 
into an iron plate there. The other tents were about thirteen 
feet by twelve, and supported by a ridge-pole on uprights at 
each end. 

Mr. Cain, the cook, had sole control of the provision tent ; but 
at times I grieve to admit that his charge was not burdensome, 
beyond the care of the bare canvas and sundry empty boxes, with 
here and there a stray bit of bacon. Mr. Cain was of necessity 
possessed of a gfctiius somewhat universal. Besides his duties as 
cook, he assisted in keeping our slim wardrobes in repair, l^e 
mended our shoe-packs and inocasshisrhu~ vvash g fi -Su t clothes?" 1 
catered for the party ; was general waiter; referee in disputes 
among the men ; stakeholder, and chaplain to tent No. 2. 
We had also attached to our camp an old gray horse and the 
owner , whose duty it was to drag our provisions and to move 
the heavy part of the camp and utensils when necessary to shift 
our position. 

I will skip over the mud and dirt of the fall season, during 
the continuance of which we were only on the outskirts of the 
forest, and at once plunge into the woods and the snow. There 
let me describe as I can the operation of pitching camp. 

All but the absolute necessaries of life are, the day before it 
is desired to move, sent ahead over some convenient, though 
may-be roundabout “ logging road ” — called “ roads” by cour- 
tesy ; they are but the most solid ground marked out and cleared 
of underbrush, logs, &c., to a limited extent. In the morning, 
when all are turned out, the tents are struck and the “gray" 
loaded down with what remains of camp traps, and with Mr. 
Cain in charge, sent on to the next resting place, already picked out 
by the chief of the party. We to our work,— until about three 
o’clock in the afternoon, when we strike through the bush to find 
our new home. As we had no snow-shoes, this used to be a some- 
what tough wade knee-deep through the unbroken snow and the 
monotony of a four-mile walk, and was only relieved by an occa- 
sional plunge and entrapping of the feetin the covered brushwood. 

Arriving at the place, (where Cain’s party has certainly only 
come up, or not yet done their refreshment of tea and hard tack, ) 
instantly all is activity and every man of our eighteen is making the 
most of what little daylight remains. Sites for tents are marked out. 
The “ axe detachment” first roughly clear the ground and make 
room for the shovels to remove the snow ; meanwhile the “ axes” 
arc busy cutting tent poles and pins ; another party is unpacking 
and preparing the tents for pitching, and all not required thus are 
gathering brush, to be made use of presently. Mr. Cain is 
arranging and his assistant cutting wood for the camp fire, which 
done, he sets to work to prepare the evening meal, and woe betide 
him if it is not ready for serving when the tents are pitched ! The 
snow cleared away, axes are again called into play and the 
ground surface roughly levelled and cleared of stumps. Then 
the tents arc pitched and pinned down— the bottom lap of canvas 
being turned in, and not as in summer left loose inside on the 
ground, is placed a layer of rough brush which is covered with 



30 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[January 1st, 



finer fir boughs about a foot in length, the stems sticking down- 
wards and inclined to the horizon at an angle of about 30°, this 
method of placing giving a greater spring to our bed than could 
be otherwise obtained. 

This so far applies to both tents, — I will now confine myself to 
the interior arrangement of tent No. 1 . The broom laid, our canvas 
flooring is spread, covering all but the rectangular shaped space 
from the door to the back pair of the upright poles, which are at 
the foot about three feet apart. In the square formed by these 
upright poles our sheet* iron stove is put up and the pipe sent 
through its receiver at the tent top. These two latter additions 
to our furniture I may remark are luxuries and not met within 
every day camp life — the canvas flooring was to us what the 
carpet is to the labourer’s cottage ; and the stove as a parlor grate 
to the house already heated by furnaces. 

Then, each man at the head of his allotted space places his blan- 
kets and any extra clothing he may have. Now the cry is 4 Sup- 
per !” “ Supper !” “Cain, bring along the grub.” The cry is echoed 
back from camp No. 2, and Cain has his hands full for the next 
half hour. Our portable table is put up and soon covered with 
hard-tack and molasses, bacon and beans. Such with unmilked 
tea is camp fine twenty miles from any house. Our table furniture 
was a tin-plate, a pannikin, knife, fork and spoon to each man. 

On Christmas day we had a feast. We had not then got very 
far into the woods and there was sent to us an orthodox dinner, 
such as one might expect at a first class hotel, dessert, wines and 
all, with something, for those so inclined, to take in hot water. 
Amongst the condiments appertaining to this feast there happened 
to be some Cayenne pepper ; and one of our number, whether not 
knowing its biting properties, or having got so far in his dinner as 
not readily to distinguish the colour, took rather too much at one 
time. I can see him yet before me with his hand on his mouth, 
his face lengthened, and eyebrows contracted ; and I can 

hear what he said when he took his hand away what that 

was suffice it to say, it was’nt “ That's nice pepper .” But 

this is rambling, and to return to the direct thread of our narra- 
tion. Supper is done and the table cleared away. Our stove 
fire is lighted and all sit round to enjoy the tranquil evening pipe. 
An hour is passed in smoke and story^— the party breaks up, 
round disable where vingt-et-un is the 
favourite game with beans as counters. If the night is clear and 
fine, after the men who retire early have gone to sleep, those of 
our party who have preferred books to cards may be found by the 
open camp fire. The scene is a deeply impressive one ; all 
around you are the black trees with their background of the 
purest white, over head the deep blue of a winter sky, and as you 
gaze on that moon and stars you dwell in mind with others far 
away but not too far to behold the selfsame objects you now be- 
hold ***** The stillness of the night is disturbed by the 
breaking up of the card party, and you awake, to think, to con- 
trast what was with what is, to reflect on what a life is this! 
Wading through snow all day, sleeping in your clothes all 
night ; but yet there is a charm about it — a charm as indescribable 
as it is alluring. The old camp hand would forsake the most 
comfortable city quarters for the rough life and hearty pleasures 
of a winter under canvas. 

Tq bed Each man has three blankets, and in cold weather 

it is expedient to double up and lie spoon fashion . So spread one 
blanket on the canvas, take off coat, vest and boots, put them 
under your head, and put over yourself and chum the remaining 
five blankets, with what overcoats you may between you possess, 
and to sleep, to sleep and not alone to bed : sleep such as is the 
reward of an honest day’s toil. 

Mornincr At the cry “ turn out,” while we were yet rub- 

bing our eyes and “ cookee” was lighting our fire, what one 
misfit see was four bundles of blankets and these blankets, towards 
1 1 1 e°c i rc u m fe re nee of the tent about the head and shoulders, white 
ith hoar frost from, under each bundlet wo heads peering, and 




out” is the word, and in five minutes every fellow has blankets done 
u ) and his part of the household put in order. Then fora wash in 
the open air when your eyebrows and eyelashes are hanging with 
i.-iules before the towel is applied and friction produces heat. 

Now breakfast “ Halloh! Fritters! Bully for you, Cain.” 

To the uninitiated, I may say that “ fritters” are a delicious com- 
bination of flour and grease done brown in an open flying pan 

Breakfast over, away to work with a large round “ hard-tack 
in our pockets, to be eaten on a stump, and we return home at 
night tired and hungry. 

We finished our work here about the first of February, and 



walked through the snow for sixteen miles to the nearest beaten 
track, where we were met by sleighs and brought back to Bath- 
urst. ' Next day we shifted quarters to Dalhousie, at the head of 
the Bay des Chaleurs, where to our pleasure we found another 
surveying party, and to vouch for the health of our party, I may 
tell that we, in contradistinction to the others, were called “ the 
fat party.” 

While camped near Dalhousie two of our party took a holi- 
day and went cariboo-shooting, but after many a weary tramp 
had to give the thing up for a bad job. To return to camp with- 
out the venison, was what they knew well would not be a safe 
experiment ; so to put matters right, on their way back they, 
having met a farmer who the day before had shot a cariboo, and 
had still the skin in his possession, bought the skin as also a young 
heifer which would about fit the said skin. They shot the heifer 
and had her skinned, made a hole to correspond in the cariboo 
skin and thus had their trophy carried to camp. They presented 
some of the meat to friends in the village, who together with our 
camp pronounced it excellent. The truth only came out some 
months afterwards. 

In return for the numerous kindnesses shewn to them, the 
other party gave a “ball,” to which the elite of the village came, 
as did also the “ fat party.” The fear of trespassing too much 
on your space bids me suppress the wish to describe this ball. 
There may be room to state the important fact that, of the twelve 
unmarried young men connected with these two parties, four of 
them have since been married to young ladies whose acquaintance 
they made in this way that winter so much for Balls. 






J. W. Digby, M. D., ’66, is one of the Deputy Reeves of the 
town of Brantford, Ont. 

John Calder, B. C. L., ’72, is the editor of the Coaticook 
Observer , P. Q. 

W. McKay Wright, B. A., *6i, & B. C. L., ’63, represents 
the County of Pontiac, P. Q., in the Dominion Parliament. 

Albert R. Lewis, B. A., ’69, is studying law at Toronto. 

Frederick A. Kahler, B. A., ’69, is engaged in the study 
of theology in Philadelphia. 

John R. Malcolm, M. D., ’61, is a successful merchant at 
Scotland, Ont. 

Wm. W. Lynch, B. C. L , ’6S, Gold Medallist, represents 
the County of Brome in the Quebec Legislature. 

Christopher A. Geoffrion, B. C. L., ’66, is Lecturer on 
Roman Law, in the Faculty of Law. 

John J. Hindley, B. A., ’68, & M. A., ’73, has charge of a 
Congregational Church at Owen Sound, Ont. 

Donald McGregor, B. A., ’71, has charge of a Congrega- 
tional Church, Liverpool, N. S. 

A few of the friends of John S. Hall, ’74, recently met and 
presented him with a magnificent receptacle for cigars, on the 
occasion of his departure for Ottawa to spend the Christmas va- 
cation. 

George Wood, M. D., ’62, is now practicing his profession 
in Faribault, Minn. 

D. H. McLennan. B. A., ’71, is now studying theology at 
Edinburgh. ^ 

A. Duff, ’64, the first Anne Molson Medallist, after gradua- 
ting at the Theological Seminary, Andover, Mass., is now study- 
ing at Berlin, Prussia. 

The following men are now away from College, suffering 
from illness: Silcox, (Partial), Malcolm, ’75, and Jackson and 
McGregor, ’77. C. Jones, ’74 (Medicine), has had considera- 
ble trouble with a sore hand and arm, poisoned in performing a 
poU mortem. lie is now, we are happy to say, almost welL° 



1874.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE, 



31 



^ci ; gti§ ^tclvcf’ : 
HIS CAREER IN ARTS. 



Of late years there has been a marked and painful increase 
in the popularity of “ sensation ” novels. Always unwholesome 
and often immoral in tone, they have been read with avidity as 
serials in magazines, and in book form, and afterwards, as dramas, 
have been loudly applauded by crowded theatres. Men capable 
of higher things have pandered to this depraved taste, and have 
been enriched thereby ; but we know that there are many readers 
who prefer truth unadorned by genius to the brilliant but danger- 
ous fictions so eagerly sought after by the majority. For this 
class we write. We shall give the history of one who is still 
alive, and whose simple virtues have been recounted to 11s by 
trusty eyewitnesses. We shall not leave our hero in mid-ocean 
at the end of one number, nor introduce Perdita in another. We 
snail not be obtrusively moral at each conclusion, neither will we 
create a villain for the sake of killing him ; nor make our hero 
happy by marrying him to his landlady’s daughter. 

Without further preface we may state that Fergus Mclver was 
born of poor but respectable parents. The importance of this 
fact was brought before his mind with great clearness when he 
read 44 The Lives of Eminent Men.” lie noticed that these quali- 
ties in their parents formed the most evident bond between them, 
and he thought it likely that they were the causes of their future 
greatness. Applying this reasoning to himself, he found that he, 
too, could lay claim to this mark of future distinction. His parents 
were not as poor as he could have desired, but his father was a 
pillar of the village church, and for what he lacked in poverty, 
he made up in intense respectability. “Yes” thought Fergus, “I 
am born to be great ; I must go to college and improve the talents 
that were entrusted to me.” This unassaiable conclusion was 
further strengthened by the circumstance that, from tender youth, 
he wrote regular verses which impartial friends pronounced to be 
“ without a single poetical fault.” 

Fergus accordingly matriculated at McGill. He soon became 
a general favourite, but his artless simplicity and unworldliness 
made him tiie subject of many impositions. For instance, when 
he began classics, the class was told to prepare eighty verses of 
Latin. Fergus, rashly trusting the statement of a class- mate that 
a verse was six lines, sat up all night to translate it, and thus 
brought on a fever which kept him a fortnight in bed. Tradition 
tells us that when the class read the verse 

“ Ventum err.t at limen, cum virgo,” &c., 

he innocently asked how the Sibyl could be a virgin when she 
was seventy years old. He did not see why the class was amused 
at his question ; still less did he understand the Professor's face- 
tious explanation of it by the fact that there were no Mclvers 
there. Fergus was always noted for the originality of his ideas, 
but the ridicule of unappreciative students rendered concealment 
advisable ; he stored them up for use at examinations (in one he 
evolved the proofs of twelve propositions of Euclid “ from the 
depths of his inner consciousness”) ; but the professors, not taking 
a large view of it, refused to pass him, — in fact he was plucked 
with great regularity for several sessions. At last it began to get 
monotonous. The professors lost confidence in Fergus, and he 
in them, and he began to think that college was not all it was 
held to be, and that he would be able to do more in the great 
outside world. 

The way he left college was rather curious. It came about 
as follows : A new professor was appointed, and Fergus was to 
attend his lectures. Naturally the students talked a good deal 
about the new comer, and he gained information more strange 
than true. One man was certain Dr. Blank drank very hard ; 
another knew for a fact that he had fits quite frequently ; and a 
third, that he had tried when in such a state, to cut his mother- 
in-law’s throat, and that his family employed a keeper to watch 
him. Fergus opened his eyes at this, but truthful himself, it 
never occurred to him to doubt what the students told him. He 
attended the first lecture with great anxiety. 

Dr. Blank lectured very learnedly about a celebrated writer ol 
the Seventeenth century, with many dates and quotations, but Fer- 
gus’ mind was occupied with other things. At last, just as the learned 
Doctor was commencing his peroration, he roused himself with a 
start and asked, “ Is— ah— is Hi is man you’ve told us about— ah— 
is he dead now?’’ Dr. Blank actually gasped for breath; he 
stared at Fergus for some seconds and then ejaculated, “ Dead, 
sir? Dead ? Didn’t I tell you — I— I— I— do you mean to insult 
me, sir?” 



Fergus stared at him blankly, thinking there was some foun- 
dation for the stories he had heard, and then said calmly and de- 
liberately, 44 1 quite fail to understand you, sir.” Dr. Blank 
turned red, then pale, tried to speak, stamped, upset his ink in 
his agitation, and altogether acted in such a manner that Fergus 
thought he was probably annoyed at something. Then his next 
neighbour whispered in a tone of awe, “He’s in a fit.” Dr. Blank 
then spoke with gasps — “What do — do you mean ? Am I — I — I — 
leave this room ! at once, sir !” Fergus’ benevolent nature urged 
him to offer some assistance, “Shall I call a physician, sir?” Dr. 
Blank was speechless with astonishment. “ There’s sure to be 
one over at the medical building — better to take these things in 
time, sir?” Dr. Blank said in a high key, 44 Leave this room ! I — 

I — leave this room !” “Shall I gel. you a glass of water, sir?” con- 
tinued Fergus moving towards the door, “ or perhaps you had 
better lose a little blood ; it’s always better to take these things in 
time, sir.” He left the room, and after he had been in the open 
air a few minutes, ke began to realize that he was the victim of 
some hideous mistake — an opinion which his classmates when 
they joined him some few minutes after, for the Doctor was un- 
able to continue his lecture, entirely confirmed. 

The next day he received a note adorned with the College 
arms, in chocolate colour, that ominous hue which portended a 
communication from the authorities. He opened it with fear and 
trembling ; it was, as he supposed, a notice from the Deputy Dean, 
couched in the forms of stately old-fashioned courtesy peculiar to 
that functionary ; it ran as follows : — 

“ Mclver (Fergus), student 4th Year, is hereby cited to appear before the 
Faculty of Arts at 1 p. m. this day. 

, LL. D., D. C. L., 

Dean of Faculty » 

Nov. .15, 18 — j Fer 

Let us pass over in silence the agony of the hours which inter- 
vened. At one o’clock Fergus was prepared to meet his fate. 
The Faculty, with the kind thoughtfulness which^we sunpnr ( r t i ; -» 
an attribute of all such bodies, allowed him to wait about three- 
quarters of an hour longer, that he might have time to prepare his 
defense. This interval was spent by Fergus in the company of 
his intimates, who cheered him with descriptions ol his coming 
44 Faculty lunch.” 

At last Fergus was ushered into the Faculty room. At the 
end of a vista-like table was seated the Principal, and at intervals 
on both sides his colleagues. After some preliminaries, a voice 
was wafted from the further end charging him with insulting Dr. 
Blank, and he was asked what he had to say in his defense. Fer- 
gus entered into a long and somewhat incoherent description of 
the scene in the class room, from which the Faculty inferred that 
Fergus thought that Dr. Blank had not been altogether in his 
right mind. 

He was cross-examined at length by a professor whose bril- 
liant attire contrasted strongly with the ability he displayed. This 
same professor afterwards expressed a desire to kick Fergus — a 
somewhat strange wish, but which may be accounted for by his 
previous inability to elicit anything from Fergus but the truth. 
Fergus was then allowed to retire, and a few minutes atterwards 
was recalled to hear the decision of the Faculty. 

It was, that insomuch, as he had by publicly insulting a profes- 
sor, put a slight on the whole Faculty, and thus had done an injury 
to University education in Canada that any good he might do in 
after life would but feebly atone for, he should send an apology 
in writing to Dr. Blank, and then and there apologize to them. 

Fergus, somewhat bewildered by the endeavour to determine 
the connection between the good he might accomplish in after 
life and his innocent mistake of the day before, naturally began in 
the familiar words of his favourite author : — 

“Most potent, grave and reverend seigniors, my very noble and 
approved good masters.” Here he paused— the Principal then 
made some few remarks, from which Fergus gathered that the 
Faculty thought his quotation was somewhat out of place, and 
that his connection with the College was no longer desirable. 

Fergus was astonished ; he received his sentence calmly and 

walked toward the door, turned, and with his hand on his heart, 
he said : “It may be for years and it may be forever,” and with 
a graceful bow he withdrew from the presence and from the Col- 
lege. 



{To be continued.') 



32 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[January 1st, 



University Pazette, 

SPubtibfiect (<y the c Uncle\yUu(uateb' of Mcffitl fytnivekufaff 
cn the 3%Mt of eveiy month of the SPeMton. 



EDITORIAL COMMITTEE: 

pRNEST JAYLOR, j JVIcJ.ENNAN, p. ji. pHANDLER, 

JbTUART jJENKINS, AND p J^AFLEUR 
jlOHN p. pLINE, p. fi. 

)V, piMPSON ^ALKER. 



The Gazette requests contributions of tales, essays, and all suitable literary 
matter from University men. It will open its columns to any controversial mat- 
ter connected with the College, provided the communications are written in a 
gentlemanly manner. 

All matter intended for publication must be accompanied by the name of 
the writer in a sealed envelope, which will be opened if the contribution is 
inserted, but Will be destroyed if rejected. This rule will be strictly ad- 
hered to. 

All literary matter must be in the hands of the committee on the 15th of each 
month, unless special arrangements are made with the committee before that 
date. 

SUBSCRIPTION $1.00, PAYABLE IN ADVANCE. 

W. B. DAWSON, Treasurer. J. S. HALL, Secretary. 



Perhaps the pleasantest break in the college year is the Christ- 
mas vacation. The examinations before it are not of that dan- 
gerous character which makes one sigh when he thinks of them. 
They are, looked at from one point of view, a mild excitant to make 
one enter into the dissipations of the season with mind capable of 
apprehending fully the pleasures which await him ; they are the 
wine, ^r The half glass of sherry in the dressing room 
before oneTescends 44 to tread but one measure.” Looked at from 
another, they are the preliminary canter before the “ great Ses- 
sional Event,” when the prizes are to be won. But our serious 
friend says our similes are 44 worldly” and 44 sporting,” and we 
will shock him no more. The Christmas vacation does not bring 
with it a feeling that we are separating from each other, as does 
the 44 long.” We accompany 44 Pater, my chum,” to the station, 
and bid him good bye without any of his friends, tor he is a popu- 
lar fellow, thinking of 44 it may be for years,” which is enough 
proof for our last statement. Then those drives the students w ho 
remain in town have had, some 44 stag parties,” and others, where 
the fair sex were not absent ! But who does not know the 
pleasures of the Christmas time ! Nine hundred and ninety-nine 
papers and periodicals have descanted on it, and w*e need not add 
anything, for our remarks must necessarily be inadequate, and 
w r e, in conclusion, will only wish 44 the compliments of the 
season” to all our friends and fellow'-students, and if our best 
wishes be the latest they receive, they may rest assured that they 
are not on that account the least sincere. 




On December 31st, Mr. R. M. Esdaile, the Field Captain of 
the M.F.B.C., was presented by the members of the Club with a 
magnificent gold watch, evincing by this their appreciation of his 
successful handling of his team during the season, and as a mark 
of personal esteem and affection. As the Club has practised with 
us for a couple of seasons, all students who are at all interested 
in foot-ball, can bear witness to the uniform courtesy which he 
has show r n, w'hile those clubs which have played against the 
M.F.B.C. know, to their cost, the talent he has displayed in 
placing and directing his team. The occasion of the presenta- 
tion w as his leaving town permanently. All students will regret 
that his departure will put the Foot-Ball team under a new Cap- 
tain, while some of us will feel his loss as that of a warm per- 
sonal friend. We trust that in future years the Club may be as 
victorious as it has been under Mr. Esdaile’s direction,— and he 
leaves town bearing w'ith himour sincerest wishes for his future 
happiness and success. 



31 fficimmutticaltott. 

Co 03 

We have received a communication from a student of our 
Medical Faculty. We cannot publish it on the ground that it is 
anonymous, and we must present the points he makes, instead of 
letting him speak for himself, which, on such a subject we should 
prefer to do. The subject of his letter is the state of the 
dissecting room. He complains of the lack of dissecting mate- 
rial, and after a tribute to the skill of the demonstrator, 
affirms that his attendance at his duties is irregular, and that 
since the beginningof the session 44 it is quite a rarity to see him 
in the room.” He adds that while at similar schools in Great 
Britain the students have the opportunity of seeing two or three 
demonstrations a day, at McGill we have only seen some four or 
five in the term. The importance of practical anatomy as a train- 
ing for successful professional life, is admitted by all, and we are 
sorry to have to call attention to this subject ; as from what we 
can learn from the few Medicals now in tow n, the complaints our 
correspondent makes are well founded. We have no doubt but 
that in our next issue we will hear from some other students on 
this question, and in the meantime we leave the subject until we 
have more responsible information than an anonytnous letter — to 
the contents of which w r e draw T the attention of those interested. 



We regret that we have to announce the death of the late 
Professor Charles Smalhvood, M.D., LL.D. 

Dr. Smallwood was born in Birmingham, in the year 1S12. 
He came to Canada in 1833, and in 1834 settled at St. Martin’s, 
Isle Jesus, where, in that year, he began his observations in Me- 
teorology. In 1S56, McGill University conferred upon him the 
honorary degree of LL.D., and two years later our University 
appointed him their Professor in Meteorology, a position which he 
held until his death, December 22nd, 1873. 

He discovered the effects of Atmospheric Electricity on the 
formation of the snow crystal, and instituted extensive investiga- 
tions on ozone in connection with light, electricity, and the effects 
of germination of seeds, and on its development and effects in 
disease. 

Dr. Smalhvood has contributed largely to various scientific 
periodicals, not only in this country, but also in the United States 
and in Europe. He is likewise the author of Contributions to 
Canadian Meteorology . The object of the w’hole of these obser- 
vations have ahvavs been directed to practical utility, with refer- 
ence to medical science and to the health of mankind. They 
have been written during the brief intervals which he could snatch 
from a very active and laborious professional life, and are there- 
fore the more valuable and interesting. 

Dr. Smalhvood was also one of the Governors of the College 
of Physicians and Surgeons of Low r er Canada, Honorary Mem- 
ber of the British Meteorological Society, of the Montreal Natural 
History Society, of the Literary and Historical Society of Que- 
bec ; Member of the Soci£t£ M£t6orologique de France, of the 
National Institute of the United States, Corresponding Member 
of the Academy of Natural Science of Philadelphia, of the Obser- 
vatoire Physique of St. Petersburg, and of the Acad^mie Royal 
des Sciences, des Lettres et des Beaux Arts of Belgium. 



We call the attention of intending contributors to the regulations 
under which we can alone receive contributions. We have been 
troubled with anonymous contributions, which, of course, it was 
impossible for us to publish. We imagined that it was so well 
understood as a matter of journalistic policy, that the publishers 
must know the names of their writers — not to use, but as an evi- 
dence of good faith — that a reference ^to the subject would be 
enough. However, in the future we hope our contributors will 
bear our regulations in mind, and that we will not have to reject 
articles in the future, as we have in the past, on account of our 
ignorance of the source from w hich they emanate. The commu- 
nications of <4 Trebor” and 44 A Freshman” will not, on this 
account, appear in our columns. 



The Gazette appears somewhat later than the date it bears 
on its first page, thus going to the opposite extreme to those periodi- 
cals which come out long before the time they are due. It is not 
from imitating this fashion that the Gazette puts in its appear- 
ance a week beyond its time, but the Christmas vacation and 
press of business at the printing-house have both contributed to 
this result. 



1874.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



3 



6 

o 



Simlcitt 3£ifc itt 

To the Editor of the University Gazette. 

Dear Sir, — In compliance with a rash promise made last 
spring, I propose to describe a scene of student life in Germany 
that is but rarely witnessed, viz., a student’s funeral. You must 
forgive me if the description be not as entertaining as a student’s 
correspondence should be, for the deceased was one of my more 
intimate acquaintances — a young Bostonian. 

Last Monday afternoon (27th ult.) I dropped into this gentle- 
man’s room to ask him to spend the evening with me. 1 found 
him stretched on the sofa with his landlady bending over him. 
On my expressing anxiety, he told me that his eye felt queer, and 
that lie thought he had caught cold in it. He said that it seemed 
to have become fixed obliquely in its socket, and that consequently 
he could not walk straight, for everything was presented to him 
in two different aspects, whose comparative truth he could not 
judge. We laughed and joked about “ seeing double,” &c. I 
left him after receiving his promise to drop into my rooms some 
other evening soon, l ie proposed to go to Dresden next morning 
to consult one of their best oculists. 

In the morning, as I passed his rooms on my way to an eight 
o’clock lecture, I recollected his intention of going to Dresden, so 
I ran up to his room to ask after his eye. His sitting-room door 
stood ajar. On crossing towards his bedroom I was startled by 
noticing, through the half-open door, that there were several people 
there before me. I hastily advanced, but paused on the threshold, 
arrested by the sight of my friend stretched upon his bed evidently 
unconscious, and struggling hard for every breath. His landlady 
and the doctor stood by, but had already done their utmost before 
I entered. A student present drew me aside and told me 
that the invalid had gone to bed early the night before, but had 
shortly after alarmed the house by calling for assistance. When 
the others hastily entered they found him unable to speak, 
although conscious of what they said to him, but he soon finally 
lost all consciousness. As I heard this I recollected what the 
poor fellow had told me of his repugnance to Freiberg doctors. 

1 hastily left the chamber to enquire the quickest and surest way 
of bringing one out from Dresden. But before the next train 
started, my friend’s struggles were ended. In less than twelve 
hours after his serious seizure he quietly sank to rest. 

That night a meeting of the students was held, whereat it was 
promptly resolved that, according to German student-custom, the 
funeral should be conducted at the students’ general expense, and 
a committee was appointed to carry out this determination 
Several Americans wanted the burial to be left to the numerous 
American students here, but the other students resented the pro- 
posal as an insult. An Englishman and I were placed on the 
committee as friends of the deceased ; a third one, our chairman, 
was an American, to represent his nationality; and the others 
were a Russian gentleman and a German baron. Our first duty 
was to appoint regular watches, of four students each, to guard 
the body constantly until its burial. 

The rooms of the dead were hung with black cloth, draped 
with white and black crape. On the day of the funeral the body 
was elaborately dressed, and laid on a bed of state, which was 
covered with purple velvet bedecked with silver fringe. The room 
was filled with hothouse plants, and the body was covered with rare 
flowers. All that day the room was illuminated with massive 
candelabra full of lights. But the most striking feature of this 
parade was the “ Ehrenwache,” or guard of honor, consisting of 
eight students supposed to have been friends of the deceased. 
Our duty was to stand motionless on either side of the bed dur- 
ing the day’s proceedings. We were dressed in the holiday costume 
of Saxon miners. Let me try to describe it ! On our heads were 
high cylindrical caps of green or black stuff, decorated with silver 
or gold braid in a kind of Grecian pattern. The front of the cap 
bore the well-known mining device of crossed hammers of gold 
or silver, and on one side was fastened a gay green and white 
rosette, which was overshadowed by a lofty plume of white 
feathers. We wore parade kittcls, a kind of black cloth Gari- 
baldi taken in at the waist, but showing no belt. Such a coat is 
provided with an erect black velvet collar and a mock cape of 
black velvet, ornamented with gold or silver braid. (The Saxon 
students here arc privileged to wear all such mining ornaments 
of gold, whilst the outer barbarians must content themselves with 
the cheaper metal.) 1 lie breast of the kittel bears a treble row 
of silver buttons, the sleeves ase slashed and provided with a very 
liberal allowance of the same, and on the shoulders are the cross 
hammers again, with a heavy silver fringe depending below them. 



Our hands were encased in white kids ; and we wielded orna- 
mental wands terminated in gold or silver heads of a somewhat 
hatchet shape. About our waist were buckled patent leather 
“ arshledcrn” (a species of leather apron that the miners always 
bear behind to spare their trousers when they squat down to work 
in a mud-puddle) and over them we buckled bright belts, with 
gay silver buckles. Our trousers were white. Thus apparelled 
I felt more suitably equipped for a ghastly masquerade than for 
a sober funeral. But our work was trying enough to sober any 
one. We had to stand, four by four, erect and motionless, for an 
hour at a time beside the corpse, while all the old women and 
children in Freiberg who happened to be at leisure came in and 
criticised the whole performance. 

As though vve students were not sufficiently uncomfortable 
already, they asked each other whether we were friends of the 
deceased, or how much the undertaker gave us for the job. And 
I took it as a decided compliment when they expressed their ap- 
probation of the whole performance, which they invariably did 
with repeated use of that expressive word “ schon” (beautiful). 
Some of them specially tickled my vanity by confessing that 
it was almost as good as the circus that performed here the week 
before. 

At six p. m., the burial service was read by the American 
Chaplain, from Dresden, who delivered a brief address, d'recting 
the students’ attention to this warning of the shortness of life. An 
oratorical address was then delivered by the German Pastor, who 
pronounced the benediction. During the service, the hall was 
filled with a number of Obersteigers (mine captains). Their cos- 
tume was somewhat like that of the Ehrenwache. But they 
wore top-boots, and had swords at their sides. They wore bands 
very like a clergyman’s, but heavily braided with gold lace. In 
place of our black velvet on the shoulders, their kittels had white 
capes, richly braided and decorated with gold. In their caps 
they wore stiff black plumes, instead of our waving white ones. 

As soon as the sendee was finished, the coffin was brought 
in. It was a most elaborate German affair, standing about three 
times as deep as a Canadian one, and gradually narrowed to- 
wards the top. Such coffins look as if they were built in several 
stories, and they display a great deal of white metal work. 

When we left the house, we found the procession drawn up 
outside, patiently awaiting us. The strange c ^ TTT zne - 
immense crowds, were rendered doubly imposing by the fitful 
glare of the torches. The band struck up a most dismal dirge, 
and we moved off very slowly. Sec the order of procession ! It 
was headed by the town brass band in most fanciful costumes. 
Behind it was borne the flag of the academy, surrounded by a 
guard of honour, dressed precisely like the Ehrenwache. Then 
came the American flag, reverently draped in mourning and 
surrounded by a guard of Americans in full evening dress, with 
large tricolour sashes. Next advanced the flag of the presiding 
corps, accompanied by a guard of the corps, students wearing 
sashes of the corps’ colours and long gauntlets and bearing drawn 
swords. It was followed by the flag of the other corps, sur- 
rounded by a similar guard, menacing the spectators with sharp 
sabres. Behind the last flag walked the Ehrenwache. It was 
followed by the marshal of the procession in gold-embroidered 
cocked hat and loud voice, accompanied by two sombre 
assistants. Close at their heels paced six coal-black horses 
drawing the hearse and led by mutes. The hearse was escorted 
by the Obersteigers. It was followed by the private mourners, 
and the professors brought up the rear. The whole train was 
escorted and lighted by a double row of the students dressed 
appropriately in miners’ cvery-day costume and bearing huge re- 
sinous torches. Our rcute to the railway station was lined by 
thick crowds in spite of the gloomy, cold, threatening weather. 
When we reached the station we found a car specially fitted 
up for the reception of the body, tastefully draped with black 
cloth and decorated with garlands of flowers. 

The ceremonies were sadly curtailed by reason of the mourn- 
ing for the late king of Saxony. By law, all music and festivity 
throughout Saxony was, during a certain time, prohibited. There- 
fore when the funeral proper was over, we were compelled to ex- 
tinguish the torches and dismiss the band before we rcintered 
the town. The police were so strict that we were not even 
allowed to sing “ Gaudcciinus tgitur ” around the burning torches 
according to the ceremonial prescribed for such seasons. Even 
the sorry satisfaction of flaunting our flags on the way back was 
denied us, although the night was so dark that nobody could 
have seen them in any case. 

Thus the obsequies were shorn of much of their pomp. But 
even sadly curtailed as they were, I hope that the description of 



34 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[January 1st, 



them may interest some of your readers, such events are for- 
tunately of rare occurrence. 

If the students of McGill take interest in random sketches of 
German life, more especially of student habits and customs, I 
may trespass again on your columns. 

Believe me, 

Your sincere well-wisher, 

J. Fraser Torrance. 

Freiberg, Saxony, 3rd Nov., 1S73. 



To the Editor of the University Gazette. 

Mr. Editor,—* 

tn your report of the formation of the Rifle Companies, the 
impression was conveyed that it was the first attempt that had 
been made to form a corps in McGill. In the Session of 1871, a 
then member of the present Senior Class, made an unsuccessful 
attempt to form a Military Company. The students then appeared 
to think with Buckle that the fool of the family always went into 
the army. Now it appears that our students continue to play at 
soldiers for some years after they have discarded their other in- 
fantile amusements. Trusting you will notice this correction, 
I remain, 

A Student. 



S******a e£> M. c S in * 

Second Paper. 



THE FOUNDER’S FESTIVAL. 

A great American humorist, in a dissertation upon mankind, 
remarked apologetically, “ that after all, most men have a good 
deal of human nature about them.” We own, that like the ma- 
jority of our fellow-creatures, we are not free from this weakness. 
We are aware that in the present utilitarian age, it it thought by 
many that it is altogether foreign to the subject to clothe the 
classic and rigid outlines of education with any extraneous though 
graceful adorn ment. It is considered that the acquirement of so- 
cial traming~sfrould not be combined with that of mental discipline, 
and at a University established for the purpose of classic and 
scientific instruction, the intercourse and amenities of society de- 
serve no recognized place ; and, perhaps, in our own Alma Ma- 
ter these theories, up till a short time ago, have been pushed to 
their furthest development. Unlike most other American Uni- 
versities, we have had no class societies, and, we fear, but little 
class feeling, whilst on the other hand the intercourse between 
the different Faculties has heretofore been of the most meagre 
and formal description, and signalized by a painful absence of 
esprit de corps. Now, we are happy to write, this state of 
things has been to a great extent changed, and we may say it with- 
out egotism, for we have not yet arrived at that dignity, that the 
change is due in a great measure to the efforts of the present 
senior years. Taking it all in all, there is much in the result of 
their efforts to look upon with pleasure. A strong interest in 
Athletic Sports has been excited, which we expect to see increase 
yearly, and our athletes have already achieved more than a local 
reputation ; class suppers and graduating dinners have drawn the 
students closer together ; the Literary Society has, in bringing the 
best of native and foreign lecturing talent face to face with Mont- 
real audiences, done a great work, not only for the members of 
the University, but for the citizens as well ; and lastly, though by 
no means of the least benefit, the present session has seen a long- 
felt vacancy filled by the publication of the Gazette. But while 
hailing with delight those evidences of a vigorous and sustained 
effort on the part of our undergraduates to bind themselves with 
new social ties more closely to one another, and to our Alma Ma- 
ter we regret to see that one of our most ancient institutions is 
being allowed to pass unhonored. We refer, as our readers have 
doubtless already learned from the heading of this paper, to the 
Founder’s Festival. We might, if necessary, enter into elaborate 
arguments to show the folly of this course ; but we trust that none 
such will be needed, and believe that the omission of the usual 
gathering this autumn has arisen more from pre-occupation than 
from wilful neglect— a neglect, however, of which we heieby 
venture to remind our readers. 

But though, as we have just said, we would be exceedingly 
sorry to see the old and time-honored custom pass this year with- 
out notice, in looking back to the days when the festival was ob- 
served in the most rigid manner, we can find no great thrill of ex- 
citement in the reminiscence. It certainly never was ot any very 



festive character, and partook always more of a solemn and decor- 
ous offering on the altar of Propriety, than of a Terpsichorean fes- 
tival of the Graces. The viands were unsubstantial and etherial, 
never rising to the dignity of the Western u square meal,” and 
instead of ruby Burgundy or sparkling champagne, the libations 
were of tea, coffee, or lemonade ; cups which, while they certainly 
did not inebriate, could not be said in any very marked sense of 
the Word to Cheer. The songs, however, were deeply imbued 
with the Bacchanal spirit, and it was rather amusing to note the 
difference between the real and the poetical nature of the fluids. 
A chorus of mild youths, looking eminently clerical in their white 
chokers, black gowns and swallow-tails, and who had probably 
drank naught but water from the brook from their youth up, 
would be heard demanding in stentorian tones that the flowing 
bowl (which, from the character of the askers, might be fairly 
presumed to be of gruel) should be heaped up to repletion ; while 
the soloist, a great temperance agitator at present, and a Method- 
ist minister in futuro , loudly chanted the praises of the rake Ho- 
race, or declared his intention of remaining in the convivial 
assemblage until the appearance of daylight ; and immediately 
afterwards, to show that they did violence to their finer feelings 
only in obedience to musical exigency, they took a drink of coffee 
all round. 

But if stimulants were tabooed, the loss was more than made 
up by the more exciting presence of the fairer sex. More excit- 
ing, for while no man of sense would, on an occasion of the kind, 
lose his head from a too great indulgence in alcoholic beverages, 
Beauty, under any circumstances, is apt to fire the heart of the 
susceptible undergraduate. But Beauty, though she was deeply 
adored, was in most cases adored from a distance. Occasionally 
some senior, whose years and experience in the warfare of Cupid 
had imbued him with more than ordinary confidence in his own 
powers, might be seen half hidden in a secluded alcove in the 
library, whispering his vows in the ear of his fair companion ; or 
a freshman, in whom an incipient moustache and first swallow- 
tail had aroused an unwonted dignity led, to supper a wise virgin 
some ten years his senior, and grinned in triumph at his compa- 
nions in a manner from which respect for the years of his partner, 
if nothing else, should have deterred him. But the majority of 
men, if our recollection serves us rightly, felt constrained to pay 
their devotions in silence, and congregated in little coteries, in 
which the feminine element was conspicuous by its absence. 

But perhaps, after all, our judgment should not be credited as 
impartial. At the only festival which it was ever our good for- 
tune to attend, we held but the verdant and contemned position 
of a Freshman. Our short residence at college had not yet inspired 
us with that obtrusive self-confidence which the first few months 
generally gives to the first-year student ; and we were content to 
take ourselves at the valuation of our seniors rather than at our 
own. And so it happens, perhaps, that our reminiscences are 
tinged rather with the recollection of our own conduct than with 
that of others, and for all our badinage, we would by no means 
have our newly arrived students pronounce the Founder’s Festi- 
val “ slow” on any opinion derived from our dictum, for slow it 
was not. And as we said at the beginning of this paper, we 
would regret exceedingly to see that it was not celebrated this 
year. It is, in one sense, the first of our collegiate gatherings. 
In all the long years during which McGill has climbed to her 
present high position, the Founder’s Festival has served to bind 
the students more closely to their University, and the news of 
its abolition would cause a pang in the breasts of many now far 
away from us, as they thought of the times long gone by. In 
celebrating it, too, we pay a just debt of gratitude to the man 
who made Montreal the seat of the foremost University in our 
country — a debt which, while our University bears the name of its 
founder, we are not likely to forget. And so we again beg to 
urge upon the students of the several Faculties the advisability, 
as soon as the vacation is over, of electing the usual committee, 
and taking all measures necessary for the observance of the 
annual Founder’s Festival. 



We see by the Yale Potpourri that C. H. Ferry, an old High 
School boy, is Commodore of the Yale Navy. He is, we under- 
stahd, the first uudergraduate who has enjoyed the honour of 
being commodore. 



Our readers will be pleased to learn that Mr. D. F. H. Wil- 
kins, B. A. (Toronto), and one of our first graduating class in 
Practical Science (Mining) has been appointed Science Master 
in Hellmuth College, London, Ont. We congratulate Hellmuth 
on the choice they have made. 



1874.] 



McGlLL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



35 



c Eiftli o( ^lonlfcal ami 

Paper II. 



Since the last paper was published, I find on further enquiry, 
that several notes and additions must be made to the list there 
given. And, here, it is proper to state that on further consider- 
ation I think it may be as well, in future, to give sub-generic 
divisions as arranged by Baird. I do this for the reason that 
sometimes a genus is too large for easy reference, and on this 
account it has been found better, or at least more convenient, to 
arrange certain members of the same genus in one sub-genus, 
and others in another. 

With regard to those already published, in the present paper 
I shall mention, where necessary, the sub-genus to which each 
is assigned. 

Family : Falconidae. 

Sub-Family : Falconinae. 

Genus : Falco. 

Sub-Genus : Falco. 



^ « f Falco anatum , Bonaparte. ) Duck 

Peregrine Falcon [ Fako commtinis , C . * } Hawk. 

This is a medium-sized, sharp-winged species. In the mature 
male bird, the colour on the head and back, dark greyish 
brown, with the borders of the feathers on the back and 
wing and tail coverts of a lighter shade. Tail same general 
colour, but barred and tipped with white. Inner fibrils of 
the long wing feathers barred with white. Underside of 
wings with alternate bars of white and grey — except at the 
ends of the long quills, which are greyish brown. Throat 
and breast white, the latter being tinged with a light red- 
dish brown, and also with a few short, but rather broad 
dark brown streaks. Abdomen and thigh feathers reddish 
white, barred and spotted with dark brown. Legs yellow, 
stout and strong ; toes yellow long ; claws black. Bill 
rather large and strong— black at the apex, yellow at the 
base. 

There is also a blackish brown band extending from 
the back of the neck, on each side of the neck towards the 
breast. From the base of each side of the bill there is also 
a large blackish brown patch running for a short distance 
down each side of the throat. Length about 15 inches. 

Ip. the female— the colour of the plumage is generally 
same as in the male, except that there is no reddish tinge 
on the breast and thigh feathers, and the streaks on the 
breast are fine. The legs and feet of the female bird are 
very strong and stout, and are nearly twice as large as those 
of the mole. Length about 1 7 inches. With reference to 
this species, Mr. J. F. Whiteaves, F. G. S., of this city, 
records in the Canadian Naturalist for 1870, that “A fine 
adult male was obtained by Mr. Marcel, at St. Lambert’s,' ” 
on the side of the St. Lawrence opposite to this city. 

Mr. C. A. Craig, who is a well-known practical orni- 
thologist of this city, lately showed me a very fine male 
bird of this species which he has in his collection, and 
which he tells me was shot in the month of April in 
1872 by some duck-shooters, at the Indian village of 
Caughnawaga, on the south side of the St. Lawrence, 
and opposite to the village of Lachine on the south-west 
side of the Island of Montreal— distant 9 miles from this 
City. Mr. Craig states that before the above mentioned 
specimen was shot, it gave the sportsmen in the neigh- 
bourhood, considerable trouble, in the way of disturbing 
the wild duck which they were in pursuit of. 

Mr. Craig saw another specimen, four or five years 
ago, at Nuns’ Island. The latter had been chasing a wild 
duck, which only escaped by allowing itself to drop sud- 
denly into an open space of water and then diving imme- 
diately below the ice. The hawk having been thus foiled 
in his attempt, flew into the woods on the above island. 
Peregrine Falcon ( Falco anatum , Bonaparte.) of 
America appears to be closely allied to the Luropean spe- 
cies ( Falco Pcrcgrinus , Gmclin.) The latter species is 
sometimes called the k * Wandering Falcon , ftom the fact 
that it has been observed in almost every part of the world. 
Formerly, in I ngland, very stringent measures were 
adopted Yor the preservation of the species, and “ the cus- 
tomary breeding haunt of a pair was placed under the 
especial care of the occupiers of the land in the immediate 
vicinity, and they were made responsible, by the terms of 
their tenure, for the safe keeping of the noble birds and 



The 



their offspring.” “ These birds were much prized in the 
Middle Ages on account of their fitness for the highly- 
esteemed pursuit of falconry.” u The female from her 
much greater size and strength, was emphatically 4 the 
Falcon’ ; the male, called the Tercel, or Tiercel, being 
more frequently flown at much smaller game, as Part- 
ridges.” 

The Peregrine is an active, daring and swift-winged 
bird, and on account of its possessing these characteristics, 
it appears to strike terror in “ such of its feathered breth- 
ren as cannot compete with it in strength or activity — in- 
deed, no bird, from a wild goose to a lark, is safe from 
its murderous attacks. Its prey, which is usually seized 
when upon the wing, is made to rise from the ground by 
a variety of tactics. A partridge it terrifies by perform- 
ing gyrations above its head, until the frightened creature 
endeavours to seek safety in flight ; Pigeons are often so 
panic-stricken as to plunge into the water, and ducks are 
frequently so overcome with fear and exhausted with their 
struggles, as to be powerless to dive, and thus to elude the 
dreaded foe.” “ Some species of pigeons endeavour to 
same themselves by crowding together in a thick mass, and 
quiting the locality with all possible expedition ; but even 
this stratagem rarely meets with complete success, for 
some weary straggler is pretty certain to fall into the 
clutches of the ever- watchful enemy, who darts down 
upon its victim like an arrow from a bow. Immense 
numbers of crows are also destroyed by these birds, who 
often subsist for whole weeks together upon their flesh.” 

“ Large birds, such as wild geese, are generally disposed 
of while upon the ground, as their size would render it 
impossible to contend with them in the air, and the flesh 
is devoured upon the spot where the victim is killed ; 
more portable prey, on the contrary, is carried oft' to some 
quiet retreat, where it can be eaten at leisure. Small birds are 
entirely consumed, but larger kinds are stripped of a por- 
tion of the feathers, and the entrails are thrown aside as 
unfit for food.” “One strange habit of the Peregrine 
Falcon must not be passed over without notice — namely, 
that at the very first attack made upon it by ev'^e^ie most 
insignificant and cowardly of feathered C\v 1 II 

at once throw down its prey, or even allow it to be seized 
and carried off by foes of so timid character that a spirited 
clucking hen might drive them from the spot.” “ Most 
serious and extensive is the destruction caused by these 
birds, and since the days of falconry have passed away, no 
service rendered by them can in any degree compensate 
for the many injuries they inflict upon our property — in- 
deed, but little can be said in their favour, except that they 
are imposing in their appearance when sailing through the 
realms of air.” 

When caged they will sometimes live for many years, 
and exhibit surprising voracity. Hanmann mentions having 
kept a Peregrine Falcon for some time in confinement, and 
tells us that “ on one occasion it devoured the whole of a 
fox in the course of two days ; three crows were only suf- 
ficient for one day’s provision, but, on the other hand, it 
could, if required, fast for a whole week ; this bird would 
seize six sparrows at a time, three in each foot, and des- 
patch them, as it squatted on the ground, by biting one 
after the other through the head, laying down each victim 
in succession, until all were killed.” 

“ The greatest falconer of modern times was one of 
the Lord Orfords, who died towards the close of the last 
century. He is said to have incurred an expense of £100 
per annum for every hawk he kept, for it had its separate 
attendant, and was sent, like its fellows, on occasional 
voyages to the continent, for the preservation of its plu- 
mage and courage. The Grand Falconer was one of the 
most illustrious officers of Royal Courts of Europe, from 
whom we, probably, borrowed the idea, and with us the 
distinction became hereditary. 

“ In the year 182S, the Duke of St. Albans, the heredi- 
tary Grand Falconer of England, gave a display of this 
practice at Redbourne, near St. Albans. The birds, eight 
fine falcons, were each chained to a section of a cone of 
wood, about fifteen inches in height, and ten inches in 
diameter at the base. They were unhooded, but belled, 
and mostly sat at the top of their posts. 

“ Six of them were taken for the sport of the day. A dog 
having pointed, a hawk was unhooded and loosed ; it rose, 
wheeling over the heads of the party, sweeping to the right 



[January 1 st, 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



However, on referring to Baird, and comparing the 
descriptions of our present species with those given in his 
work, of the young and adult of the u Ger or Iceland Fal- 
con,” it appears very probable that our birds may belong 
to the latter species, known by the scientific name of 
( Falco Islandicus , Gmelin), and arranged in the above 
sub-genus. 



and left, now ascending into the mid-air in the distance, 
and now obeying the hawker’s call. The partridge was 
flushed, and flew with the wind towards the company, 
when the hawk suddenly crossed its line of flight, and, 
seizing it at a height of thirty or forty yards, bore it in his 
beak, screaming and bleeding, over the heads of the com- 
pany, conveying it down to the belt of an adjoining plan- 
tation. The falcon was recovered. Other flights were not 
so successful, and some of the falcons flew otf, and could 
not be recovered to the hand of the falconer.” 

The sport is still kept up in England, and is also occa- 
sionally tried in this country. 

In addition to the notice, in my first paper, of the prac- j 
tice of falconry in Canada, the following may be added : — 
Mr. Craig tells me that a Captain Dugmore, an officer 
of one of the regiments stationed here about six 3 T ears ago, 
both in the neighbourhood of this city, and at St. Johns, 
P. Q:, used the Duck Hawk, the Goshawk and Sharp- 
shinned Hawk for the above mentioned purpose. He 
also tried the Red-shouldered Hawk, but did not succeed 
very well with it. The Goshawk appeared to be the most 
suited for the purpose, it having captured for him among 
other creatures, a specimen of the Great Blue Heron found 
on Nuns* Island. 



Sub-Genus : Hypotriorchis. 

Pigeon Falcon or Hawk ( Falco Columbarius , Linnaeus.) 
This species has been already noticed in my first paper, 
but the Sub-genus was not given. There is only one addi- 
tional note to make. Mr. Whiteaves tells me that the 
Pigeon Falcon ( Falco Columbarius , Linnaeus) of 
America is closely allied to the u Hobby” {Falco subbuteo, 
Latham) of Europe. 

Sub-Genus : Hierofalco. 

Dawson’s Hawk ( Falco Dawsoni, Hall.) In the Museum of the 
Natural History Society of this city, there is a specimen of 
this bird, with a ticket attached, stating that it was pur- 
chased in 1857 from Mrs. Broome — wife of a former taxider- 
l v adbA Q the N. H. S., at the time when the Museum was 

""" 111 Li fTie St. James street. Mrs. Broome affirmed that 

she obtained the bird in the Montreal market. 

This specimen, which is a female bird, was described 
as a new species and dedicated to Principal Dawson by 
the late Dr. A. Hall, who was formerly connected with 
the Medical Faculty of McGill. We may, however, justly 
claim the species as a visitor to this Island, inasmuch as 
a smaller male bird of the same was presented to the N. 
H. Society by the late Mr. W. Hunter, — who was for a 
number of years taxidermist to the Society ; the latter spe- 
cimen having been obtained near Lachine, on the south- 
west side of this Island. 

These birds are large and very strongly built, and are 
sharp winged. The colour of the plumage in both birds 
is the same. The prevailing colour on the upper parts is 
a dark, almost black, greyish-brown, with a narrow border 
of white on most of the feathers, especially on the neck. 
Tail same colour as on the back, but crossed by ten or more 
narrow whitish bands, and tipped with white. There are 
twelve feathers in the tail. Under parts mottled dark 
greyish-brown, and white, with more white on the throat. 
Thighs on outside, well covered with rather long white 
and brown barred feathers. Legs and toes strong and 
rough, with large black claws. Bill stout and strong, 
blackish at the apex, whitish at the base. 

Female measures 2 feet in length, with a girth of about 
20 inches. The male is 21 inches long, and 19 inches in 
girth. 

With reference to the above, Mr. Craig, who is too 
accurate and careful an observer to be easily mistaken, 
assures me that he believes the birds under consideration • 
to be only immature specimens, and that he has seen the 
adult or full-grown birds, both in the possession of parties 
in the city of New York, and also one in the collection of 
the Revd. Mr. Anderson of Point Levis, opposite to Que- 
bee city. The adult bird are nearly all white, with a very 
little dark colour mixed in. 

Mr. Craig did not remember the scientific name by 
which the mature specimens were known. This, I shall 
endeavour to ascertain before the February number of 
the University Gazette appears, and if any correction 
be necessary, I shall make it then. 



Sub-Genus : Tinnunculus. 

Rusty-Crowned Falcon, or Sparrow Hawk ( Falco Spar - 
verius, Linnaeus.) This bird was noticed in Paper I, but 
the sub-genus was not given. Mr. Whiteaves has called 
my attention to the close relationship which our American 
Sparrow Hawk {Falco sparverius, Linnaeus), bears to the 
European Kestrel {Falco tinnunculus, Linnaeus), but not 
to the European Sparrow Hawk {Falco nisus , Linnaeus), 
or as given in Cassell’s Book of Birds, by Thos. Rymer 
Jones, F.R.S., {Nistis communis'), an opinion in which 
Mr. Baird appears to agree b)' including it in the above 
sub-genus. 

Sub-Family: Accipitrin^e. 

Genus : Accipiter. 

Cooper’s Hawk ( Accipiter Coopcrii , Bonaparte.) Chicken 
Hawk. The length of this bird is about 16 inches ; girth 
about 12 inches. Prevailing colour above, dark brown, 
streaked with brownish white on the head, and with about 
four broad greyish-brown bars on the tail, which is tipped 
with white. Throat, breast and abdomen white streaked 
with dark brown ; wings the same. Legs and feet yellow. 
Bill, blackish at apex, yellow at the base. Claws black. 
Specimen in N.H.S. Museum was obtained here. 

Genus : Butko. 

Sub-Genus : Leucopternis. 

“ Marked” (Buzzard Buteo insignatus , Cassin.) This species 
was noticed in Paper I, but the sub-genus was not given. 

Sub-Genus : Poecilopternis. 

Red-Tailed Buzzard or Hawk ( Buteo borealis, Gmelin.) 
This was also noted in the last paper, but not the Sub- 
Genus. 

Red-Shouldered Buzzard or Hawk {Buteo lineatus , 
Gmelin.) Since this species was noticed in Paper I, I 
have obtained the following information concerning the 
same : — 

In the Canadian Naturalist for 1S70, Mr. Whiteaves 
records as follows : — “A nest of this species, containing four 
eggs, was taken in May, by Mr. C. A. Craig, at Longue 
Pointe, (on the South-east end of the Island of Montreal.) 
The nest was placed in an elm tree, about 50 feet from the 
ground, the tree itself being eighty feet high. It was large, 
and roughly constructed of cedar twigs and leaves, and 
lined with moss. One of the eggs is in the Society’s col- 
lection. 

An egg which closely resembles that obtained of Mr. 
Craig, was given me by Master E. A. W. Kittson, who 
informed me that it was taken in a wood near Sorel.” 

I have examined both the above mentioned eggs. The 
one from Longue Pointe is in shape, a round oval of a 
bluish-white colour, more or less covered with unequal- 
sized blotches of brown. Length of longest diameter 22 
inches ; width or shortest diameter, 1.8 inches. 

The egg from Sore! is also oval in shape, but larger 
towards one end, and of a faint greenish-blue white, with 
numerous brown blotches on the larger end. 

The longest diameter of this specimen measures 2.3 
inches in length ; the width at largest end is 1.8 inches. 

Mr. Craig informs me that, about six years ago, at 
Ilochelaga — on the east end of this city, — after patiently 
waiting for a good part of a day, at the foot of a tree, in 
which a nest, with young one in it, was placed, he suc- 
ceeded in shooting the mother, and then obtained the young 
bird. This young one was about one week old, Mr. 
Craig having visited the nest a week or ten days before, 
at which time the eggs were not hatched. It is covered 
with a greyish-white down, and measures about 5 inches 
in length. 

Mr. Craig also obtained, in the same year, at Nuns* 
Island, opposite Point St. Charles, another female bird, 
with her young ones. One of the latter (which was three 



1874.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



37 



weeks old) is covered like the first mentioned one, but in 
addition, a few feathers were beginning to develop on 
the wings and tail. The length of this specimen is about 
8 inches. 

Genus : Arciiibuteo. Brehm. 



w This genus contains six or seven species, inhabiting 
Europe, Asia and North America, all birds of heavy, though 
robust, organization, subsisting mainly on small quadru- 
peds and reptiles. The species of this genus are easily 
recognized by their having the tarsi (the lowest part of the 
legs ) feathered. 

RoUCh-legged Buzzard or Wwwi^Archibuteo lagopus,G tnclin) 

This is the same as the European species. It is a large 
soft and full feathered bird, being also feathered to the toes 
In these characters and in its slow, noiseless flight, which 
is carried on mostly in the twilight, or after the sun has 
set, it bears some resemblance to an owl. 

The length is about 23 inches. Colour of back and wing 
coverts dark brown, with the feathers more or less barred 
and bordered with white. Head and throat, a mixture of 
brown and white streaks. Tail (towards the end) dark 
brown, barred and tipped with white, but towards the 
base of tail feathers the prevailing colour is white, regu- 
larly barred or spotted with brown. In one specimen the 
tail is tipped with white, but is not barred. Under parts 
mottled brown and white, with a broad white brown- 
spotted band across the breast. Thighs and legs, as 
noticed above, feathered to the toes, which are strong and 
rough. Bill and claws blackish. 

The band across the breast of a young bird is nearly all 
white, with a few brown spots. In another older bird the 
brown spots predominate. 

This species is considered by some ornithologists to be 
only the young, or at most only a variety of the Black 
Hawk ( Archibuteo Sancti-yohannis , Gmelin). In Coues* 
book it is so considered. 

With reference to this species, the world-renowned orni- 
thologist Audubon states that this “ is a sluggish bird, and 
confines itself to meadows and low grounds bordering the 
rivers, where you may see it perched on a stake, remain- 
ing there for hours at’ a time, unless some wounded bird 
comes in sight, when it sails after it, and secures it without 
manifesting much swiftness of flight. It feeds principally 
on moles, mice and other small quadrupeds, and never 
attacks a duck on the wing, although now and then it pur- 
sues a wounded one. When not alarmed, it usually flies 
low and sedately, and does not exhibit any of the courage 
and vigour so conspicuous inmost other hawks, and suffer- 
ing thousands of birds to pass without pursuing them. 
The greatest feat I have seen them perfoim was scram- 
bling at the edge of the water to secure a lethargic frog. 
They alight on trees to roost, but appear so hungry or in- 
dolent at all times that they seldom retire to rest until alter 
dusk. Their large eyes indeed seem to indicate their pos- 
session of the faculty of seeing at that late hour.” “ The 
number of meadow mice which this species destroys ought, 
one might think, to insure it the protection of every hus- 
bandman ; but so far is this from being the case, that in 
America it is shot on all occasions, simply because its pre- 
sence frightens mallards and other ducks, which would 
alight on the ponds, along the shoies of which the wily 
gunner is concealed ; and in England it is caught in traps 
as well as shot, perhaps for no better reason than because 
it is a hawk.” 

Black Hawk ( Archtbuteo Sancti-Jokannis , Gmelin). 1 his is 
a rather rare visitor to this neighbourhood, and is consi- 
dered by some naturalists to be the mature bird of the pre- 
vious species ( Archibuteo lagopus, Gmelin.) It is about 
19 inches in length ; girth about 18 inches. 1 he geneial 
colour of this bird, above and below, is blackish brown, 
slightly mottled with white on the back of the head and 
neck. Tail also barred with white. Thighs covered with 
Iona- blackish-brown feathers, with the lower part of the 
legs covered to the toes, with the same coloured but hair- 

like feathers. Toes strong and rough, colour yellow. Bill 

and claws black. 



Sub-family : Aquilinae. The Eagles. 

“ Size large, and all parts very strongly organized. Bill 
large, compressed, straight at base, curved and acute at 



tip (apex) ; wings long, pointed ; tail ample, generally 
rounded ; tarsi (lower part of legs) moderate, very strong; 
claws curved, very sharp and strong. There are about 
seventy species of eagles, of all countries. 

Genus: Haliaetus. Savigny. 

Bald ( , .. . , ... T . White- head- 

Eagle { < rr * haet »* leucocephalus , Linnaeus ) J Ff> Eagle 

A young bird of this species was shot about a year ago, 
among the islands a few miles below the east end of the 
Island of Montreal. In the adult the “ Head, tail and its 
upper and under coverts white. Entire other plumage 
brownish-black, generally With the edges of the feathers 
paler ; bill, feet, and irides (part of the eyes round the 
pupil or central portion) yellow.” The white feathers on 
the top of the hiad arc loosely arranged and form a distinct 
crest. 

In the young birds, the colour of the plumage is dark- 
brown, with the tail more or less mottled with white. Bill 
brownish black ; isides brown. Total length, female about 
35 to 40 inches ; male, 30 to 34 inches. 

There appears to be considerable difference of opinion 
among Ornithologist, as to whether the celebrated “ Bird 
of Washington,” which Audubon discovered and described 
under the name of (Haliaetus Washingtonii) is really a 
distinct species, or only a larger but immature specimen of 
the Bald Eagle. The present species is a fish-eating bird, 
like the following. 

Genus : Pandiox. Savigny. 

American ( Pandion Cariolinensis.G melin. \ Fish Hawk 5 
Osprey. ( Pandion Haliaetus , C. i River Eagle- 

Mullet Hawk ; Eagle fisher ; Balbuzard . This well- 
known American bird is regarded, by some naturalists, to 
be identical with the European species, (Pandion Haliae- 
tus), an opinion in which Mr. Coues appears to coincide, 
as he adopts the latter name for the species, in preference 
to the first mentioned one as given in Baird’s Work. 

Mr. Craig informs me that one or more of these birds 
may be met with, every summer, in the neigh l^Ov} ^\ 00 ^ 
Nun’s Island, or towards Lachine. 

One old male, shot at Nun’s Island, about four years and 
now in the possession of the above mentioned gentleman, 
has the following characters. Length 21 inches, back, 
and wings dark browm, with the tips of the latter of a dar- 
ker shade. The head is white, mixed slightly with brown 
on the top, and the back of the neck. There is also a 
broad, dark brown streak extending, from back of each 
eye, dowm the side of the neck to the back. Throat, 
breast, abdomen and thighs white, with brown streaks on 
the breast. Legs and toes very large, strong and rough, 
of a lead-grey colour. Bill and claws, both large and 
strong, colour black, cere, or wax-like skin covering the 
base of the upper mandible of the bill, of a lead-grey 
colour. Eyes yellow'. 

On the coast of the State of New Jersey, U. S., where 
these birds are more numerous than here, I had an oppor- 
tunity during portions of the summers of 1866-7, of obser- 
ving their habits. In the neighbourhood of the place in 
question, five pairs of these birds had taken up their resi- 
dence for the fishing season. Each pair occupied a sepa- 
rate, large-trunked tree, about a quarter of a mile apart, 
in which they had constructed a large nest of dried twigs 
and small branches, rather loosely arranged. Each nest 
was placed in the fork of the largest branches, about 15 
feet from the ground, except one nest which was placed 
near the top of a large dead tree about 30 feet from the 
ground, and w r ould measure between three and four feet 
external diameter. The twigs were piled up to a thick- 
ness of a foot or more, and the top was nearly flat. 

One pair had built their nest on the top of a stump, left 
for the purpose, in the middle of a field of corn, growing 
in the immediate vicinity. In the latter nest there were 
three or four young ones, about a third of the size of the 
parent birds. The young looked very much like owls, 
and the colour of their plumage was a mixture of light and 
dark brown. They did not seem how r ever, to appreciate 
our visit, as they came to the side of the nest hissing and 
making as much noise as they could, with the hope, no 
doubt, that we would take our departure as speedily as 
possible. These fish- hawks were afforded every protection, 



38 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[January 1st, 



and I was told that there was a heavy fine, in case anybody 
should take the liberty of destroying one of them. The 
reason why the residents hold these bird in such high es- 
timation, is I believe, owing to the supposition, that they 
drive off any other kind of bird of prey, which would be 
likely to cause a diminution in the number of their poultry, 
&c. This view of the case appears to be an erroneous 
one according to Audubon, who states that the “ fish-hawk 
may be said to be of a mild disposition. Not only do 
these birds live in perfect harmony together, but they even 
allow other birds of very different character to approach 
so near to them as to build their nests of the very mate- 
rials of which the outer parts of their own are constructed.” 

I have never observed a fish-hawk chasing any other bird 
whatever. So pacific and timorous is it, that, rather than 
encounter a foe but little more powerful than itself, it 
abandons its prey to the white-headed Eagle, which next 
to man, is its greatest enemy. It never forces its young 
from the nest, as some other Hawks do, but, on the con- 
trary, is seen to feed them even when they have begun to 
procure food for themselves. 

“ Notwithstanding all these facts, a most erroneous idea 
prevails among our fishermen, and the farmers along our 
coasts, that the Fish-hawk’s nest is the best scare-crow 
they can have in the vicinity of their houses or grounds. 
As these good people affirm, no hawk will attempt to 
commit depredations on their poultry, so long as the Fish- 
hawk remains in the country. But the absence of most 
birds of prey from those parts at the time when the Fish- 
hawk is on our Coast, arises simply from the necessity of 
retiring to the more sequestered parts of the interior for 
the purpose of rearing their young in security, and the 
circumstance of their visiting the coasts chiefly at the 
period when myriads of water-fowl resort to our 
estuaries at the approach of winter, leaving the shores and 
salt-marshes at the return of spring, when the Fish-hawk 
arrives. However, as this notion has a tendency to protect 
the latter, it may be so far useful, the fisherman always 
interposing when he sees a person bent upon the destruc- 
tion of his favorite bird. 

/The Fish-hawk differ^ from all birds of prey in another 

important particular, which is, that it never attempts to 
secure its prey in the air, although its rapidity of flight 
might induce an observer to suppose it perfectly able to do 
so. I have spent weeks on the Gulf of Mexico, where 
these birds are numerous, and have observed them sailing 
and plunging into the water at a time when numerous 
shoals of flying fish were emerging from the sea to evade 
the pursuit of the dolphins. Yet the Fish-hawk never at- 
tempted to pursue any of them while above surface, but 
plunging after one of them or a bonita-fish, after they had 
resumed their usual mode of swimming near the surface.” 
“ The male assists in incubation, during the continuance 
of which the one bird supplies the other with food, although 
each in turn goes in quest of some for itself. At such times 
the male bird is now and then observed rising to an im- 
mense height in the air, over the spot where his mate is 
seated. This he does by ascending almost in a direct line, 
by means of continued flappings, meeting the breeze with 
his white breast, and occasionally uttering a cackling kind 
of note, by which the bystander is enabled to follow him 
in his progress. When the Fish-hawk has obtained its 
utmost elevation, which is sometimes such that the eye can 
no longer perceive him, he utters a loud shriek, and dives 
smoothly on half-extended wings towards his nest. But 
before he reaches it, he is seen to expand his wings and 
tail, and in this manner he glides towards his beloved 
female, in a beautifully curved line. The female partially 
raises herself from her eggs, emits a low cry, resumes her 
former posture, and her delighted partner flies off to the 
sea, to seek a favorite fiish for her whom he loves.” 

These birds, when in quest of food, after leaving the 
nest, fly almost direct for the sea ; there they may be seen 
at one time, sailing along above the water at a height from 
ioo to 150 feet, and then all of a sudden checking their 
flight as some object in the waters beneath has arrested 
their attention. Should the fish continue in sight, the Fish- 
hawk immediately allows itself to drop, or rather dive, head 
first, and if successful the fish is secured in the bird’s talons. 
After rising from the water the Fish-hawk makes for its 
nest, flying in large curves and often continuing in its 
flight for a distance of over a quarter of a milevvith scarce- 



ly any motion in the wings, beyond a slight tipping up 
of the one, and a lowering of the other sufficient for the 
describing of its curved path. 

The appearance of the Fish-hawk, which in Europe is 
regarded with so much disfavour, is welcomed by the 
American fishermen, as the harbinger, so to speak, of their 
busy season, and this fact together with the general favour 
in which the bird is held on this side of the Atlantic, has 
been commemorated, by the poet-naturalist and eminent 
ornithologist, Wilson, in some appropriate verses of which 
the following is an extract : — 

“ Sun as the sun, great ruler of the year, 

Bends to our northern climes his bright career. 

And from the caves of ocean calls from sleep 
The finny shoals and myriads of the deep; 

When freezing tempests back to Greenland ride, 

And day and night the equal hours divide; 

True to the season, o’er our sea-beat shore, 

The sailing Osprey high is seen to soar, 

With broad unmoving wing, and circling slow, 

Marks each loose straggler in the deep below; 

Sweeps down like lightning! plunges with a roar, 

And bears his struggling victim to the shore. 

The long-housed fisherman beholds with joy, 

The well-known signals of his rough employ, 

And, as he bears his net and oars along, 

Thus hails the welcome season with a song:— 

THE FISHERMAN'S HYMN. 

“ The Osprey sails above the sound, 

The geese are gone, the gulls are flying; 

The herring shoals swarm thick around, 

The nets are launched, the boats are plying; 

Yo ho, my hearts I let’s seek the deep, 

Raise high the song and cheerily wish her, 

Still as the bending net we sweep, 

‘ God bless the fish-hawk and the fisher 1’ ” 

In the next paper I shall resume the subject, beginning with 
the Strigidae, or Owl Family, noticing as much more as space 
may permit. Geo. T. Kennedy. 

December, 1873. 



£«§* oi jgegwf>- 

t?cciionitincj. 

There is something in the atmosphere and curriculum of a 
medical school — I don’t allude especially to one special room — 
which seems to arouse the spirit of adventure latent in most 
young men who have not been brought up on pap and petting; 
a something which, like measles, propagates its contagion from 
one body to another. However reprehensible in the results, it 
seems to be nothing more or worse than that outflow of the 
animal spirits within, which other people get rid of in some less 
conspicuous way. The proverbial “ nose to the grindstone,” 
is not half as monotonous or exhausting as the nose to the note- 
book. I’m only amazed that among the catalogue of patholo- 
gical effects of hard study, there hasn’t as yet been added to the 
list, “the student’s blues”; but the reaction is so intensely 
demonstrative and healthy, that it may possibly not be considered 
worthy of notice. Without entering into metaphysical explana- 
tions of the cause of student effervescence of spirits, we may 
couple the common fact that we take our modes of thought and 
action from our company as we take some fevers, with the other 
fact, that association excites us to energize upon the propensities 
of our nature, particularly when they are prominently bad. 
Didn’t the fifth page of our school copy-books say, “ Evil commu- 
nications corrupt good manners?” In chemistry we’re shown 
that separated particles of a different nature produce entirely new 
and unlike substances when coalescent ; and in political and all 
large assemblies we find striking illustrations of the effect of 
association in approving propositions which the individuals 
present would blush to uphold on their own responsibility. 
And so in our colleges ; the meek freshman is bullied or ban- 
tered out of his meekness, and in time begins to like the college 
ways, and insensibly glides into doing as his seniors do or did. 

I wonder if the students who came in large numbers from all 
parts of Greece and Italy to Crotona to be taught by Pythagoras, 
or if the illustrious scholars of Plato, who were wont to assemble 
in the groves of Academe, were as wild and wayward out of 
school as the collegians of the present day all over the world. 
Were the practical jokes of Abernethy and Hunter — what a 
consolation to think that these intellectual giants were not long- 
faced prigs and hypocrites — only the repetition of those of 
Hippocrates and Celsus? Did Grecian streets ring with the 



1874.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



39 



“ Gattdcamus igitur" of the students’ chorus as do the streets 
of London and Montreal ? 

Would you believe it that those grave and gray Professors of 
ours doubtless had their own experience of knocker and bell- 
handle demolishments in the days of their Primary? I could 
tell of adventures by flood and field, “ from grave 1o gay, from 
lively to severe.” They preach to the freshman what they did 
not practice until they ceased to be students themselves. Well, 
bless their honest souls, we’ll all agree with them, when we too 
cease to be students. 

Have you ever seen a stranger metamorphosis under the sun, 
— don’t dare to mention such a petty one as that of the chrysalis 
into a winged animal, — than that of the student into the grad- 
uate, when lower maxillaries, sphenoid and ethmoid, bones and 
protruding stethescopes are no longer carried with an air of 
affectionate delight ; and the sangfroid look subsides into 
propriety and preciseness. The transformation is never for the 
worst: but doesn’t a shadow of sorrow fall when the “Final” 
brings the old jolliness to anchor, and leaving the pleasant halls 
of Alma Mater, the fledged one emerges into the precautiousness 
of practice, and new voices awaken the echoes and perpetuate of 
in stentorian shout the grand old song and chorus of 

“A is an artery filled with injection, 

Vive la Compagnie I 
B is a brick never caught at dissection, 

Vive la Compagnie!” 

But, to my story. Of course you know that anatomy is the 
foundation of medical knowledge, indispensable to him who seeks 
to gain an insight into the other branches of medical knowledge. 
I remember reading somewhere, that “ subjects,” as we 
are respectfully called in students* phraseology, when defunct, 
are “ provided” for dissection. Curiosity as to how or from 
where the said subjects are obtained has always been considered 
a breach of etiquette. As an old McGill song says : 



“ Nobody knows from where they come, 
But there they always are.” 



The old and vulgar prejudice against the dissection room has 
passed away; in Montreal, at any rate, it is admitted into the 
best localities. An alarming difference it would make to you if 
in an operation you might need, the position of artery and vein 
had been merely learned in theory. You would then agree that 
it is better to learn by dissecting the dead than bungling upon the 
living. The student’s nose and stomach is just as delicately con- 
stituted as yours; and nothing but the desire of knowledge could 
induce him to frequent the lead-floored room. While, as Virgil 
says : — “ Pcctoribus inhians spirantia consul csta.” 

I was enjoying afew'weeks’ holidays in the vicinity of Kings- 
ton, some nine or ten years ago, just about the time of college 
commencement, when the fellows were happy to meet again, 
and the esprit dc corps was so strong that you’d see dozens of 
them, arm in arm, perambulating the streets, and making night 
hideous with their college songs. 

ji m H and I were walking in Princess street, when we 

met Al. O , 

“Hilloa!” said he, “think of Damon and Pythias, and up 
they come! I was just looking for you. Do you want to have 
some fun?” 

“ Under sun, or moon ?” 

“ Moon, if there is any ; but I hope it will be under a cloud,” 
he replied. 

“When ?” asked Jim. 

“ To-night,” said Al. 



“ Done !” said we. 

“ Now open your auricles,” mysteriously began our friend, as 
he assumed a tragic air. “ If your hair ever stands on end ‘ like 
quills upon the fretful porcupine,’ if your skin will blanch or 
teeth chatter in the vicinity of tombstones, don’t say * done ! for 
it’s a case of resurrectioning to-night.” 

We vouched for the good conduct of hair, skin, teeth and 
grinders, and assured him it was just the very best kind of ad- 
venture we would like ; one for which we had pined ; in fact, 
that graduation would be incomplete without its indulgence ; 
that death itself would never be peaceful if we had the regret of 



non-participation. . , , . , . 

u Well, breathe not a word ; meet at my room at cjh to-night. 
Bring pick-axes and spades. I’ll need eight fellows upon whom I 
can depend. At io\ we’ll start for the cemetery. Confide in 
me, and I in you, then will matters run smooth as a rivulet. 

About nine o'clock, Jim and I disguised as laborers, sallied 
down to Al’s room, bearing our “ surgical ” implements on our 



shoulders at the slope. Sharp at half-past ten we left, accepting 
Al. as commander-in-chief. E?i route we were informed that it 
was necessary that we should be posted at different points in and 
around the cemetery ; that we’d be obliged to wait patiently at 
our respective posts until he patrolled and found the coast clear. 
Signals were arranged between us, and it was understood that 
when we heard a peculiar whistle, we should all run to a large 
gate fronting on the main road. We presented a remarkable ap- 
pearance ; some having blackened their faces with burnt cork ; 
all well disguised ; two carrying large canvas bags and ropes, 
while the others had pick-axes and spades. We mildly suggest- 
ed to Al. that we might respectively dispense with at least one 
of the two articles six of us carried, as we could not use a pick- 
axe and a spade at the same time, but Al insisted upon the whole 
equipment, and we had vowed implicit obedience. 

We arrived at the cemetery gate, where we were to rendevous 
in event of an alarm, and were posted in pairs inside and around 
the cemetery, too far apart to see or even hear each other. Ac- 
cording to instructions, Jim and I crouched down at our post 
inside the rather low fence, hidden by some large trees from any 
conspicuous view, though at that ghostly hour we scarcely an- 
ticipated many passers-by. “ Conscience makes cowards of us 
all,” and the truth of this aphorism we felt In half an hour — 
it being then eleven o’clock— Al. came up as visiting rounds to 
our guard. We reported all quiet, and no enemy in sight at our 
picket. He reminded us of the necessity of keeping perfectly 
cool and quiet : quoted Shakspeare on patience, and Milton on 
faith. “ There are two subjects. As the other fellows are ner- 
vous, I’ll set them to work first. Your time will come. You 
see that grave to the left ? That’s your work ; but don t begin on 
any account until I come back, or you may be caught; and re- 
member, if you hear the alarm whistle run to the. gate, and it 
attacked, 4 wedged together like Trojans, let us die before we 
yield.’ ” After which eloquent effort he left. 

We crouched down and were patient. A cold breeze blew, 
stiff from the larboard bow— a broken tombstone to our right— 
and the vicinity to the lake did not contribute materially to our 
comfort, as we heard the waves beating on the shore. At twelve 
o’clock the breeze grew stiff, and we saw a storm gathe ring in , 
the West. The heavy clouds thickened ominously, arid marshal- 
led themselves for a combat. They seemed to lower and frown 
especially upon us. The trees around us swayed and moaned 
dismally, and to make their moaning worse, they were weeping 
willows. The waves beat stronger upon the shore, and the wind 
beo-an to play hurly-burly with the waters of the lake. Several 
times we thought we heard Al, and Jim declared he saw him 
moving among the tombstones and beckoning to him to be quiet. 
“ Oh ! he’s a plucky fellow ; he won’t mind the storm ; it’s just 
what will suit him.” I thought so too. 

At half-past one it was cold and windy, and a drizzling rain 
began, which increased till it became a perfect cataract, raining 
drops like marbles, and giving us a gratuitous demonstration of 
the science of fluids in motion, and compelling allopathy to con- 
fess that hydropathy, as applied under the circumstances, was 
likely to cure our depraved taste for body-snatching. 

« I wish Al would turn up. I’m sick of this, but I won t 



jack out!” said Jim. i . .. .. 

“ Yes,” said I, “ we’ve made our bed, and we must lie on it, 

hough it is somewhat moist.” 

“ How do you feel ?” 

“ Oh ! splendid ! not at all thirsty, thank you. 

“Look there!” said Jim, grasping my arm. “What on 

;arth or out of it, is that ?” , , , . , 

We had crept under protection of an old shed or store-house 
for wheel barrows, etc., and through the entrance Tim pointed. 

I could not see anything except ghastly white stones, and dark 
trees. A minute afterwards, however, I was sure I too could 
see the stooping figure of Al. moving across the ground |f 

“ They’re taking a fearful time up there to do their digging, 
complained my compagnon dc voyage. 

“The rain stopped them, I daresay. I m wet through, but 

I’ll grin and bear it if you will.” 

“Oh ! yes. I’m bound I won’t give in, if I die on the spot. 

Won’t have to be carried far if I do.” 

Just about then the rain stopped; the clouds rolled away, 
and the stars peeped out, and very far apart they seemed. 

“ Do you believe in ghosts?” asked Jim. 

“ No,” I replied, “ except in the ghost of Hamlet s father, loi 

I saw him myself.” , „ 

“ No joking ; but I do. Dr. Johnson did. It cannot be all 

nonsense about those spectral appearances we read of in ancien 



40 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[January 1st, 



and modern history. Let me tell you a ghost story attached to 
the history of our family." 

We regaled each other in this way for another hour. 

“ Don’t you remember the fate of Idas when he broke one of 
the pillars and desecrated the sepulchre of Apharens ?” Jim was 
very classical. 

“ No,’* I said. 

44 He was thunderstruck immediately by Jupiter." 

44 It’s a good thing you didn’t mention it when the storm was 
on. I do wish our turn would come, in spite of the fate of Idas.” 
44 Let’s get out of this musty hole, and go back to our post.” 

44 Bring a wheelbarrow to sit in, as the grass is slush.” 

Back we went, and sat in the wheelbarrow, “ coupled and 
inseparable, like Juno’s swans,” as Jim suggested. 

44 I don’t see much fun in this adventure ; do you?” asked my 
mate. 

44 Oh ! the fun has to come yet. We’ll never regret the wetting 
when we succeed." 

“ I vote we go to work on our own hook. What is the use 
of wasting time like this. I am beginning to catch cold. Here 
comes a sneeze.” 

44 Smother it, quick, or we’ll be caught !” 

“ Do you think you can remember the grave A1 pointed out?” 
“I’m afraid not.” 

“ Well, let us fire away at any one, for a change." 

But pulling out my watch, and finding that it was half-past 
three, I urged him to desist just for half an hour more. To tell 
the truth, I felt that A1 had made us play second fiddle too 
long, and had given the best of the adventure to the other stu- 
dents. 

44 Now, look here,” ejaculated Jim, as he git of!' the wheel- 
barrow, “ I won’t stand this five minutes longer. Here’s the 
water now soaking through my best congress boots. If it has 
taken all this time to dig one grave up there, we won’t have any 
chance.” 

44 Well, don’t speak so loud,” I urged. “ We’ll pack up and 
move down nearer to the other fellows.” 

41 Very well,” said Jim, “ but we may as well ring the water 
out of our coats.” 

^W^ took them off, and got them moderately dry, after the 
approved manner of laundresses before the introduction of the 
patent wringer. 

“ My breeches are sticking to my legs !” 

“ So are mine.” 

“ Whe-w ! whe-w?” At last the signal! Up we jumped, 
feeling very stiff and miserable ; and shouldering our instruments 
made tracks for the gate, where we found our six comrades. 

“ I say,” said one, “ I fear A1 is caught He was at our post 
at ii£, and said there was danger. We haven’t seen him since, 
have you ?” 

“ No !” vve answered. 

“Yes,” said one, “he must be nabbed. We crept down 
through the wet grass — Bob and I ; Bob fell in an open grave, 
which was half full of mud and water, and if I hadn’t had this 
rope there would have been a corpse on hand for sure. We then 
came down here and whistled.” 

“ Who was up at the far end of the cemetery?” I asked. 

“ We were,” said Jack N — and Thos. W — . 

“ Well, what did you do? ” 

“ Didn’t do anything, but lie down under a willow and let it 
weep upon us. We’d have been drowned if it hadn’t been for 
that tree. We’re soaking through coats, vests and shirts, and out- 
boots are like kitchen pumps.” 

“ Ditto,” echoed the rest. 

“ I feel the black burnt cork running down my neck and 
bosom, and I didn’t change my dress shirt which I wore last 
night at T’s party,” said Dick. 

“I’ve been sneezing down my sleeve until I’m sure I’ve ripped 
th 2 lining,” said Tom. 

“ I can hardly move my right leg,” said Bill. 

“ And I’ve got rheumatism in my left arm and a toothache,” 
said Bob. 

“But where can A1 be? Did any one see him after that 
visit?” I asked. 

They all answered “ No.” 

Just then it occurred to me that there was “ something rotten 
in the State of Denmark,” so to speak, and I asked Jack what 
A1 had said to him when he last left him. 

“ He told us there were two subjects, and that as you and Jim 
were nervous he’d set you to work first ; that our turn would 
cotfie. He pointed to a grave ; said that’s where we would have 
to work ; told us not to begin until he returned, as we might be 



caught ; and that when we heard the whistle we were to run to 
this gate.” 

“ Did he say anything about being ‘ wedged together like 
Trojans,’ &c.” 

“ Yes,” said Jack, “ those were his last words.” 

“ Fellow countrymen,” said I, “ I think this whole affair is a 
sell!” 

We looked into each other’s faces vacantly. Some of us tried 
to laugh, but it was a sickly kind that couldn’t come out in that 
air. 

“ Lets whistle once more,” said Bob, whose faith was still 
strong. 

We whistled, but no answer, no Al. 

“ What’s the time?” 

“Just half past four, and daylight will soon be breaking.” 

“ I vote we go home.” 

We sloped arms and went on our weary way, sadder but wiser 
young men. 

The next morning Jim and I were limping and sneezing down 
King street, and as we approached a book-store there was the 
veritable Al, large as life, with a host of fellows who seemed to 
be enjoying themselves immensely. As we came up a general 
shout arose, “ How are you, Resurrectionists?” 

The mystery was gradually cleared away. After posting the 
eight of us and visiting Jim and me at 1 1 Al had gone home 
to bed . When we were roosting on the wheel-barrow, wet as 
fish, he was in the arms of Morpheus in a feather bed. 

“ And were there no bodies to raise?” piteously asked Jim. 

“ None but your own,” said Al. “ The ground hasn’t been 
used as a place of burial for fifteen years !” 

I don’t think any of those eight young men were ever induced 
to go Resurrectionning again. 

W. G. B. 

Montreal. 






The Dalhousic Gazette contains an editorial on the various 
uses of the college buildings of the institution from which that 
periodical emanates, instancing among them a brewery, the 
offices of a gas company, &c. Considering the materials, the 
sarcasm attempted rather fails. The way in which they criticise 
the speakers at their debates is excessively personal ; but if the 
same style was in vogue at other colleges the speaking in literary 
societies would be improved. 

The Harvard Advocate contains a plea for an elective on the 
new philosophy, known inaccurately as Positivism, but which 
might be more correctly designated as the Evolutional Philoso- 
phy, as that term would include the Darwinian theory in science, 
and what the writer calls Strauss-ism in theology. Unless we 
are mistaken, the chronology of the writer of the article on Base 
Ball of Antiquity is somewhat loose, otherwise the article is 
clever. Its poetry is far above the average of college attempts 
in verse. 

As an exhibition of dreary mediocrity in prose and verse, and 
pseudo-sentimentalism and vulgarity in idea, we have seen 
nothing that can equal the Emory Banner . 

The Central Collegian is at hand. They say we are heavy. 
They do not fail on account of the opposite quality ; as an example 
take the rhymes from which we give one stanza : — 

“ How tar I ran I cannot tell, 

But certainly I shall remember 
The cow with the bell, over which I fell, 

As she lay chewing her provender.” 

Had the author’s verdancy been mistaken for that of the grass 
(“provider”), the cow should have been held perfectly 
blameless. 

The Queen's College Journal is the latest Canadian venture 
in collegiate journalism. Query : Is its verse, as the “ Mystery 
of the Jewels,” and the “ Ode to the Sun,” intended as a joke? 

We return our thanks for many exchanges which we are 
unable to notice at length. They are : — “ Harvard Advocate,” 
“ Georgetown College Journal,” “ Delaware College Advance,” 
44 Cornell Era,” “ Beloit Monthly,” “ Dalhousic Gazette,” “ Col- 
lege Journal,” “Western Collegian,” “Emory Banner,” “Spec- 
tator,” “Yale Record,” “Queen’s College Journal,” and the 
44 Galt Collegiate Times.” 



1874.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



41 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY. 



EXHIBITIONS AND SCHOLARSHIPS OFFERED FOR 
COMPETITION AT THE OPENING OF THE SES- 
SION, SEPT/, 1S74. 



IN THE FACULTY OF ARTS. 

To Students entering the First Tear , 7 wo Exhibitions of 
$125; Twoof$\oo . 

Subjects : — Greek. — Homer, Iliad, bk. I.; Xenophon, Anabasis, bk. I.; 

Lucian, Charon. Latin. — Cicero, Pro Lege Manilia ; Livy, bk. V., chaps. I. 

— XXV. ; Horace, Odes, bk. I. Text Books. — Hadley’s Elements of Greek 

Grammar. Arnold’s Greek Prose Composition, Exercises f to 25. Dr. Wil- 
liam Smith’s Smaller Latin Grammar, and Principia Latina, Part IV. 

Mathematics. — Euclid, bk. I., II., III., IV. Algebra to end of Harmonical 
Progression (Colenso). Arithmetic. English. — English Grammar and Com- 

position. — (Bain’s Grammar, as far as Derivation ) Special Exercises in Gram- 
mar and Composition. 

• 

To Students entering the Second Tear, Three Exhibitions of 
$125; One of $ioo. 

Subjects :■ — As stated in Calendar of last year. 

To Students entering the Third Tear , Three Scholarships of 
$125 ,atid One of $120. — Tenable for Two Tears . 

Subjects : — As in Calendar of last year. 



IN THE DEPARTMENT OF PRACTICAL AND 
APPLIED SCIENCE. 

The Scott Exhibition , founded by the Caledonian Society of 
Montreal, in Commemoration of the Centenary of Sir 
Walter Scott. j 

One Exhibition of $66, to Students entering the Middle Year. 

Subjects : — Mathematics. — Ordinary and Honour of the Junior Year. Eng- 
lish ot the Junior Year and English History as in Student’s Hume. Engineering 
and Surveying of First Year. Chemistry, as in Wilson’s Text Book. 



DAKIN, ARCHIBALD & CO., 

COMMISSION MERCHANTS anfl GENERAL AGENTS, 

6 , 8 and 10 Bedford Row, Halifax, N. S. 

Personal attention given to the Sale of Canadian Consignments. 
Liberal Advances niade to Consignors. Place of Business , 
with Good Storage , in the Centre of the City . 

Prompt Returns Guaranteed . 

REFERENCES BY PERMISSION : 

Charles Robson, Esq., and others, Halifax ; Messrs. Thomas Rigney & Co.* 
Merchants, New York ; G. R. Henderson, Esq., and others, Digby ; Levi Bor- 
den, Esq., and others, Pugwash ; Lewis McKeen, Esq., Mabou, C. B. ; Messrs- 
MacEachren & Co., and others, Charlottetown, P. E. I. ; Leander Chute, Esq.* 
King’s Co. 

G. W. Dakin. P- P- Archibald. 



WOODWORTH & BELCHER, 



Merchant Tailors and Clothiers , 

(Formerly Boon & Woodworth.) 



Mr. BELCHER is lately from London, Eng., where he has 
had ten years’ experience in some of the leading Houses of 
London. 

They are now prepared to make Students’ Gowns and 
Trenchers to order; also Military and Clerical Oiujts 

No. 3 ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STREET, 

MONTREAL. 



One Exhibition of $66, to Students entering the Senior Year. 

Subjects : — All the pure Mathematics of ordinary course of the first two years, 
with remainder of Drew’s Conic Sections and of Colenso’s Algebra [Part 1]. 
The Engineering and Surveying of the two preceding years, with a Report on 
some Engineering work. English Grammar — Bain’s. English Composition. 
History of England — Smith’s Student’s Hume ; Hallam’s Middle Ages, chaps. 

VIII., IX. English Literature. — Collier; Johnson’s Lives of the Poets. 

Zoology. — Dawsons Hand Book, Invertebrates, and more especially Fossil 
Animals. 

W. C. BAYNES, B.A., 

Secretary. 



F . E . GRAFTON, 

PUBLISHER , BOOKSELLER , AND STATIONER , 

Invites attention to his large Stock of 

EDUCATIONAL WORKS AND APPARATUS, 

THE MOST COMfLEJE IN MONTREAL. 




Also to his 

Sunday School D cjpctT tment , 

Which embraces every requisite for a good Sunday School. 



Ihe Story of the Earth and Man . — By J. W. Dawson, F. R. S., Principal 
and Vice-Chancellor of the McGill University, Montreal. (Hodder and Stough- 
ton). — Geology as a science must always prove attractive ; its study serves the 
highest ends, and the facts, suggestions, and conclusions it evolves enlarge and 
discipline the mind. The several chapters of this treatise were originally prepared 
for, and appeared in, the Leisure Hour ; and now that they are gathered together, 
and reproduced, with their illustrative diagrams, they make an exceedingly useful 
volume — a volume containing an epitome of all the theories from time to time 
advanced, and the modern arguments peculiar to this many-sided and important 
subject. The author’s method is admirable for its simple straightforwardness ; for, 
while he avoids such technicalities as are likely to confuse the unscientific reader, 
he leaves nothing untouched which is necessary to a fair — not to say complete — 
comprehension of the whole science. With commendable reticence, Dr. Dawson 
has left undiscussed the relation of scientific geology to the Mosaic account of the 
creation of the world ; but on this branch of the subject he has previously written 
in his “ Archaia,” and, therefore, the less need to go over the ground a second 
time. All, however, will agree w ith him, that geology, to be really useful, must 
“ be emancipated from the control of bald metaphysical speculation, and deliv ered 
from that materialistic infidelity which, by robbing Nature of her spiritual element, 
makes science dry, barren, and repulsive, diminishes its educational value, and even 
renders it less efficient for purposes of practical research.” 



BOOKS FOR LIBRARIES AND PRESENTS. 



TEMPERANC E LITERATURE 



Forms another Department, embracing the best cjlleition of Books and Tracts to 
be found in the Province. 

IN THE 



RELIGIOUS TRACT AND BOOK DEPARTMENT 
Will be found a variety of the best Religious Pi blications of the day. 

English and American Papers and Magazines piomptly supplied. 

Circulars, Catalogues, and Lists sent on application. 



<?hce $2. 

For Hale by 

DAWSON BROS. 



F. F. GRjlFTOJSF, 

18,9 St. James Street, floixtvCQil, 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[January, 1874. 



W. NOTMAN, 

Photographer to the Oueen, 

MONTRE A L . 



Buanmks: TORONTO AND HALIFAX, 
PHOTOGRAPHER to YALE COLLEGE; 

CI.ASSES 1S72-73. 



HEARN & HARRISON, 



Capital, - - - 

The Paid-up Capital exceeds - - 
The Premium Received on shares is 



$2,500,000. 

- - - - $ 1 , 250,000 
- 170,000 



Total 

Canadian Government Deposit - 



$ 1 , 420,000 

$100,000 



POSITIVE (lOVERNMRiVr SECURITY 

at, 



MAAXAiWM 

IS UNLIKE ANY OTHER PLAN KNOWN, 

AND PROVIDES REMEDIES FOR THE DEFECTS IN ORDINARY 
LIFE ASSURANCE WITHOUT DISTURBING THE SOUND 
PRINCIPLES ON WHICH THE SCIENCE RESTS. 

IT AFFORDS : 

j. Government Securities for Assurers instead of the miscellaneous security of 
ordinary Companies. 

2. A Ne^otir , Jjt Promissory Note for ea<\:h premium, payable “To Bearer,” on 

" "* lie L i fe Assured, or cv^tvertible into Cash, at anytime, during 

life-time, to the extent of 40 per cent. of the premiums paid ; either on loan 
at moderate interest, or by surrender. 

3. If you only pay one Premium, and you never pay another, you are still 

assured, as long as you live, for the value of your first Premium. 

4. Whatever your occupation may be, you may travel and reside wherever you 

like, without fines, extra Premium, or notice, and your POSITIVE Life 
Assurance remains in force. 

5. All Positive Policies and Positive Notes arc absolutely indisputable, and all 

alike participate in eighty per cent, of profits. 

Canada Branch : 353 NOTRE DAME ST., Montreal. 

F. C. IRELAND, Manager. 




\qOATS OF ARMS, CRESTS, AND MONOGRAMS, 

^ EXQUISITELY DESIGNED AND ILLUMINATED, 

^LODGE, OFFICE, AND COMPANY SEALS. 

fashionable stationery, visiting cards, initial note 

PAPER, &c., &c. 

G. Bishop & Co., Engravers, 

1S9 ST. JAMES STREET, 

KENNETH, CAMPBELL & CO., 



MONTREAL. 



APOTHECARIES TO ILR.H. THE PRINCE OF WALES 



MEDICAL HALL, 

ST. JAMES STREET, (Opposite the Post Office,) 
AND BRANCH— PHILLIPS SQUARE, 
in<i o isrrr'FLE 




WHOLESALE IMPORTERS OF 

MICROSCOPES, 

MAGIC LANTERNS, 

BAROMETERS, 
ELECTRICAL APPARATUS, 

SPECTACLES, 

EYE GLASSES, 

Etc., Etc., Etc. 

24,2 & 24:4: NOTRE DAME STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

N. B. — Liberal discount always to Schools, Seminaries, and 
Corporate Institutions, v 

THE PLACE TO BUY 

ST A TIONERY of ALL KINDS , 

Purses and Pocket Books, 

Pocket Knives, 

Pocket Scissors, 

Albums, Opera Glasses, 

Pens, Pencils, Inks, Etc., 

IS AT 

Gr. & W. CLARKE’S, 

BOOKSELLERS, STATIONERS, AND IMPORTERS OF FANCY 
GOODS, 

222 ST. JAMES ST. (Next “ Witness” Office), 

MONTREAL. 



J. G. PARKS, 

PHOTOGRAPHER TO THE PEOPLE 



The Photos, Stereoscopic Views, &c., of J. G. Parks, 

I 95 >^ ST. JAMES STREET, MONTREAL, 

Are too well known to need any special commendation. 

W E are glad to know that through the Country the people when they come to 
the City know that J. G. PARKS is the man to “secure their shadows ere 
the substance perish.” 

Six First Prizes Awarded Him at the Provincial Exhibition . 

Special attention is directed to his NEW STYLE of PHOTOS, giving the 
effect of pictures taken on ivory. 

Ever since the fall of Adam mankind have been running after their shadows, 
but are now going to J. G. PARKS to have them caught and made tenfold more 
durable than the substance which perishes. 

Montreal : — “ Witness ” Printing House , 218 and 220 St. James Street, 




