Vol. X 












UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



The Mutual Life Insurance Co. | 



OF 3STEW YOF/K 

ISSUES EVERY DESIRABLE FORM OF POLICY. 

$109,000,000 

,aSS 0 cs n©fl»rly -go aaa 

Surplus over ------ ld,UUO,000 

The NiraL of New foil; is the largest LIFE INSUBUNCE COMPIlNy ii) the world, with the best record, 

AGENTS WANTED IN UNREPRESENTED DISTRICTS. 

Students can imnrove their circnistances considerahlF tiy acting as Agents in their own Localities during Vacatioi 
GAULT & BROWN, General Managers. 




1 



1 

i 









WEDDING CARDS. 



SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS 



VISITING CARDS, 



ml CHEMICAL APPARATUS. 



MENU CARDS, 



^ f^ull $todk don^taiitly on flani, Impoi^d 
ffoin t^e Leading jM^nufadtufe^d 
of tl^e Wortd. 



RECEPTION CARDS. 



AX IXSPFA'TIOX IXVITED. 



INVITATION CARDS, 









384 ST. PAUL STREET. 



MEMORIAM CARDS, 



AT HOMES, 
BALL PROGRAMMES. 



PROGRAMME COVERS. 

the BURLAND LITH. CO., 

^ 9 Bleui-y St„ MOXTRKal. 

Wm. Notman & Son, 



HEADQUARTERS 



—FOR— 









DRYSDALE’S 

232 ST. vJAAIT^ES ST. 



Jn.BUM€XMl. U'ORKS, BOOKS VSJEU IJ\' JRT COUBSB,^ 
SCJJSjy'CK TKXT BOOKS, 

Thu v’JBiovs iutioM.oenc.ML books. 




^ MM. MS V WJM M JU 

Foil assortat la sloclt & sDpplied,at Rod Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 



?few Scale of Trices this year 
fcv Students. 

17 BLEURY STREET. 



Scribbling Books, Ac., Ac., 
'^IBEST "V^XiTJE I3ST TOWTSTi- 
_§fy^og]^phtc_P 6713, jinti-StuIo Pens and StudeJits^ 
Supplies a Specialty. 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

232 St. Ta.ar3Ci.es Street 



-A.LSO 



Branch Store 1423 St. Catherine St. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 

VoL. X.] McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, JANUARY 12th, 1887. [No. 6. 



Slnibersit!) (iiuettc. 



BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

Jeffrey H. Burland, B. Ap. Sc., F.C.S., President. 
Edward P. Williams, Med. ’87, Vice-President. 

.r. F. Mackie, B.A., B.C.L., Sec.-Treas. 

Chs. W. Hoare, Med. ’88. 

W. A. Cameron, Arts 87. 

A. Drummond, Science ’88. 

R. B. Henderson, Arts ’87. 

EDITORS. 

Raleigh J. Elliot, B.C.L., Editor-iv-Chief. 

J. Ralph Murray, B.A., B.C.L. 

Arthur Weir, B. Ap. Sc. 

Alfred P. Murray, Arts ’87. 

W. A. Carly'le, Science ’87. 

Henry Fry, J-aw ’88. 

John H. Bell, B.A., Med. ’88. 

C. L. Wheeler, B.A., Med. ’89. 

The University Gazette will be published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which 
rule no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

All communications may be addressed to the Editors, P. 0. 
Box 1290. 



CON TENTS: 

PAGE. 

Editorials 73-74 

Obituary 74 

Poetry 74, 81, 82 

Contributions 74-80 

McGill News 80-81 

Societies 81 

Sporting 81 

Personals 82 

Between the Lectures - - - - - 82-83 

College World ------- 83-84 

Correspondence 84-86 



Ebitorials. 



VICTOEIA HALL. 

The citizens of Montreal have as yet made no 
arrangement for the celebration of the Queen’s J ubilee. 
In Ottawa, Lady Macdonald, it is said, has originated 
the idea of erecting a permanent art museum and in- 
dustrial science college, to cost in the neighborhood 
of $100,000. In our own city we have the Koyal 
Institution for the Advancement of Learning, better 
known as the McGill University, an institution unsur- 
passed in the Dominion in any course and unexcelled 
by any other university in its Medical teaching. What 



could be more appropriate than to celebrate the Royal 
Jubilee by endowing the Royal Institution 1 At the 
present time McGill University is sadly in need of 
extra accommodation, if not for its class-rooms, at least 
for the students themselves. The many men who 
come from other parts of the Dominion and from the 
United States now board in different parts of the city, 
often at a disagreeble distance from the college, and 
take their meals wherever they can get them. These 
boarding houses are under the supervision of the 
University authorities, yet we feel assured that both 
parents and faculty would be glad to have the student 
closer still under the Academic wing. The students 
themselves are eager for such a change, but the 
University, though flourishing, is not yet wealthy 
enough to erect suitable buildings. At the present 
time the College Y.M.C. A. is collecting funds to erect 
a building with reading rooms, gymnasium and other 
conveniences for the students, especially for those who 
are not natives of the city. Why not add to this 
building 1 Let the city show its loyalty to the Queen 
by building a students’ wing to McGill College con- 
taining dormatories, dining hall, gymnasium, reading 
rooms and a science laboratory for the engineering 
faculty. The building might be erected in front of 
the Principal’s House, as a companion to the Redpath 
Museum, and contain a large hall fitted for lecturing 
and convocation. The Molson Hall has had its day. 
It is a good place for holding examinations in, but is 
far too small to accommodate the students and those in- 
terested in them on convocation day. If McGill had 
a good lecture hall easily accessible to the public, there 
would then be no excuse for the lack of lectures by 
our professors, and a series of discourses might be 
inaugurated which, delivered by men so capable as are 
our own professors in their own departments, could 
not fail to bring the University into greater prominence 
than now, and redound to an immense intellectual 
advantage to the citizens of Montreal. The College is 
cosmopolitan in creed and race, so that there can be no 
sectarian or race cry raised against the proposal of com- 
memorating the' Queen’s Jubilee by the erection of a 
Students’ building in connection with our University. 
The loyalty of English men of wealth has already 
shown itself in the endowment of colleges, one having 
received from one person the sum of £15,000 to erect 
a Jubilee building. 




UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. [1887. 



OBITUARY. 

We record with deep regret the death of Mr. J. H. 
Rodgers, one of our graduates, and late member of the 
firm of Leet, Smith & Rodgers. When a boy at school 
he had the misfortune to be struck by the master with 
a heavy ruler on the thigh bone. Shortly after the 
bone became diseased, and at intervals he was troubled 
with it. This, however, was never serious enough to 
prevent his participating in athletic sports, including 
football, of which he was one of the best players in 
the city. On Thanksgiving Day he went out shooting, 
tramping through the bush and covering many miles 
over a heavy country. Since then the disease broke 
out with increased virulence, and the doctors in at- 
tendance decided that the leg would have to be ampu- 
tated at the thigh. Mr. Rodgers was too weak to 
undergo the operation, which was delayed, and efforts 
made to build up his strength. He had been delirious 
for some time past, and died on Saturday night, Jan, 
8th, without recovering consciousness. The funeral 
took place on Monday. His confreres at the bar and 
his many friends heard of his death with deep regret. 



Poetry. 



TENNYSON. 

The noble lion groweth old. 

The weight of years his eyesight dims 
And strength deserts his mighty limbs 
His once warm blood runs slow and cold. 

The sunlight of another day 

Slants through the jungle’s tangled mass. 

He marks the shadows, but, alas ! 

Sees not the sun among them play. 

His massive head lies buried deep 

Between his paws ; his reign is o’er ; 

His great voice stirs the world no more. 

And round his lair the jackals creep. 

They scent their prey, and with the joy 
Of meaner natures, far and wide 
From deep obscurity they glide, 

The dying monarch to annoy. 

With naked fangs they circle round 
And snarl and bark, until once more 
The thicket quivers at his roar 
And all their paltry yelps are drowned. 

The woodland with his voice is thrilled. 

Though hope abandoned mars the strain. 

But echoes cease, and then again 
With jackal barks the air is filled. 

Though dying, he is royal yet : 

Even now, earth does not hold his peer. 

Bark I jackals, bark I ere dies the year 
The world your tumult will forget. 

Arthur Weir. 



“ Gentlemen of the jury,” said a counsel in a .suit 
about a herd of hogs, “ there were just thirty-six ho^^s 

in that drove ; please to remember that fact thirty- 

six hogs; just exacthj three times as many as there are 
in that jury box, gentlemen” That lawyer did not 
win his case, and he thought the jurors were very pi^f- 
headed. r' o 



itontributions. 



A McGILL MAN. 

by jay WOLFE. 



Written for the Univeosity Gazetie. 



CHAP. VI. 

That hour, o’ night’s black arch the keystane.— 5«ra*. 

Speed the soft intercourse from soul to soul. 

And w«ift a sigh from Indus to the pole. 

“ Well,” said Clooney, “ one of us had better stay 
on guard while the other hunts for a bobby. 1 11 stay 
here ; I’m lazy, you know, and you hurry off. This 
bar may be useful if any burglar turns up, so I’ll keep 
it.” 

It was about the only thing to do, and I set off on 
what is usually a long quest. Fortunately I found a 
policeman after a quarter of an hour, and after ex- 
plaining the facts to him, he consented to extend his 
beat to take in the house where Clooney was on guard. 
We were just turning the corner to come into Sher- 
brooke street when we heard cries for help and the 
sound of a fight in progress. We broke into a run, 
and saw Clooney struggling with two men before the 
house. As we got close, I saw Clooney raise his hand 
Avith the iron bar in it and bring it down heavily upon 
one of his antagonists, but the other, hearing our ap- 
proaching footsteps, redoubled his efforts to escape, 
and I just caught the gleam of a weapon as he drove it 
into Clooney’s side. In another instant we were upon 
the scene, but the burglar, taking adavantage of 
Clooney’s relaxing grip, tore himself away and fled at 
a speed that defied pursuit by the already winded 
policeman. Clooney pressed his hand to his wound 
and Avould have fallen only that I caught him in my 
arms. 

“ Too late, old boy,” he whispered, “ I had all the 
fun to myself. I’ve laid out one but the other has 
.settled me.” 

In the meantime the neighborhood Avas aroused. 
The master of the house that had been burglarized 
came doAvn to the street airily attired in a night-shirt 
and a gas-pipe, and excitedly demanded what was the 
matter. I Avas busy staAinching Clooney’s wound, and 
the policeman took it upon himself to explain. 

“ Matter, is it, your honor 1 Sure them spalpeens 
has been thrying to rob your manshin. If it hadn’t 
been for them gintlemen there” — pointing to us — 
“ you Avould all have wakened up dead in the morn- 
Troth, it’s an illigant knock he gave him, the 
darlint. I couldn’t have done it better meself, and I 
sarved two years under Capt. Williams in New York.” 

The bewildered householder looked from one to the 
of and I called him hurriedly. 

“ Sir, I said, “ my friend has received a stab in 
saving your house from burglars. I hope you will 
have him taken into your house and cared for until I 
^ carriage and take him to his home.” 

Dless my soul, yes,” responded the gentleman, 

let us take him in at once. And this other 1” he 
enquired. 



1887.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



75 



“ Oi’ll take charge of him, sor,” said the policeman. 
* 1^ OQ® "will kape his oi on him whilst oi carry 
the young gintleman into the house. Sure ’t’was a 
nate blow,” he muttered, “double compound fracture 
of the Sarah Bellum, or me name’s not Patrick 
McDonahue, and Father Rourke says it is.” 

A little crowd had gathered, and Clooney was gently 
lifted au'd borne into the house, while McDonahue, 
having secured a cab, bore his prisoner off to the hos- 
pital. A physician was summoned and declared 
Clooney’s wound to be very serious, and gave positive 
orders that he was not to be moved on any account. 
When I left, Clooney was conscious and bade me cheer 
up and visit him every day. I saw that he was in 
kind hands and would be treated better where he was 
that even at his lodgings. I returned to the house 
as early next morning as was consistent with decorum, 
and was ushered into the room where Clooney lay. 
He was in a high fever and quite delirious, shouting 
my name one moment and the next sinking his voice 
to a whisper of intense entreaty for Edith. I had not 
been long in the room when the lady of the house 
entered, and I rose to meet her. 

It was Mrs. Mayflower. 

I started back and muttered, “ Holy Moses, here’s 
a go.” The language was more forcible than elegant, 
but exactly respresented my thoughts, and as this is a 
truthful tale the words must stand. Now Mrs. May- 
flower did not know me, so I recovered in a few mo- 
ments and introduced myself. I expressed my regret 
that Clooney was billeted upon her and received her 
sincere assurance that she was delighted to be of ser- 
vice to one who had suffered in saving her house 
from burglars. But on my part the conversation was 
entirely mechanical and independent of my thoughts. 
Here was Clooney, as unconscious of his surroundings 
as an oyster, singing snatches of college songs, reciting 
Greek and Latin, and interspersing all with endearing 
phrases addressed to the daughter of the grave lady 
standing at his bedside. And at this moment, to cap 
the climax. Miss Mayflower herself entered with a 
jelly or something of the kind that the doctor had 
allowed Clooney, and s.aw me. 

We looked at one another for a moment in astonish- 
ment, and her mother, thinking we had never met 
before, hastened to introduce us. But Miss May- 
flower set down her tray, and with a slight blush ad- 
vanced to meet me with her hand extended. 

“We need no introduction, mama, Mr. and I 

are quite friends. Is it a friend of yours,” she asked 
me, “ who was hurt last night ?” 

“ My chum,” I replied, somewhat huskily, I am 
afraid. “We were together. He was going home 
to day.” 

“You do not mean Mr. Blake, surely! I know 
Mr. Blake by sight and reputation, but did not recog- 
nise him, if it is he.” 

Which might well have happened, since poor 
Clooney was flushed with fever and his wavy hair fell 
in an uncombed tangle over his forehead. 

“ It is Blake,” I replied, turning to the bed again, 
where Mrs. Mayflower was seated, moistening Cloon- 
ey’s lips with the jelly. Clooney scarcely heeded her, 
but his fingers rambled tremblingly over her hand 



and he continued to talk incoherently. One or two 
sentences we caught. 

“ Edith ! Edith ! why wont you look at me 1” And 
again, “ They are traitors to me.” 

“ He has been going on like that all morning,” said 
Mrs. Mayflower. “ ‘ Edith ’ seems always on his 

tongue. Do you know who Edith is, Mr. ?” 

“ Oh, ah, iris sister, I think. Yes, his youngest 
sister, Mrs. Mayflower,” I replied. 

All this time MisS Mayflower was sitting demurely 
by her mother. I could not be sure whether she had 
guessed who “ Edith ” was, but somehow I thought 
she did, especially as she said : 

“ What a strange brother he must be ! He seems 
dying to kiss his sister and to speak to her. Are all 
brothers like that, Mr. ? I thought such expres- 

sions were reserved for other people’s sisters.” 

I flushed up, and was about to answer her when 
Clooney burst into song : 

“ A pretty mermaid 

With a comb and a glass in her hand, her hand, 

her hand, 

And I’ll go no more a-roving with you, fair maid.’’ 

Almost immediately after this, the doctor came in 
and ordered us all out of the room, except Mrs. 3Iay- 
flower. Miss Mayflower and I conversed about the 
affray until the doctor and Mrs. Mayflower came out. 
The doctor drew me aside and said : — 

“ He is getting on as well as can be expected, but 
in so serious a case it will be better if his friends are 
warned. You had better telegraph his mother. Mrs. 
Mayflower has put a room at her disposal and would 
be very glad to get the responsibility of the nursing 
off her hands. She is a mother, you know, and can 
sympathize with one. I do not apprehend danger, but 
the case is serious.” 

I telegraphed as I was advised, and Mrs. Blake at 
once came to the city. She was accompanied by her 
husband and daughter. Our hoarding-house was now 
empty, and Clooney’s rooms and mine being the best 
suite I gave them up to Mr. Blake and Lulu, as his 
daughter was named, and took another for myself. 
Mrs. Blake accepted a room at the Mayflowers’. Mr. 
Blake and I became quite intimate, and together we 
did the city. Miss Lulu often accompanied us, and I 
devoted as much of my time as possible to her, in 
order to keep her mind off her brother’s danger. 
Careful nursing and a strong constitution brought 
Clooney sloAvly round, and a few days after conscious- 
ness had returned. Mrs. Blake prepared for his re- 
moval. But Mrs. Mayflower put her foot down. “ He 
was not to leave her house,” she said, “until he walked 
from it. He had suffered for them, and the least they 
could do in return was to protect him against the dis- 
comforts of a boarding-house, and secure him the 
comforts of a home.” So Clooney remained. I think 
that much of Mrs. Mayflower’s kindness was due to 
her having fallen in love with his mother. 

One morning when I called to pay my usual visit to 
Clooney, I was surprised to see him propped up with 
cushions in the sitting-room listening to no less a per- 
sonage than Miss Edith MayfloAver as she read in the 
usual girlish monotone from ‘ The Virginians.’ He 



76 



UNIVEESITY GAZETTE. 



[1887. 



was only a ghost of his former self, but I doubt if a 
ghost ever bore so contented an expression as he did. 
He flushed a little beneath my quizzing glance and 
greeted me with a slight — very slight tone of annoy- 
ance. I have always observed that as a man falls in 
love, and things go smoothly, he deserts his male 
friends and even finds them in the way. 

“Who excuseth himself, accuseth himself,” I thought, 
as Miss Mayflower hastily volunteered the information 
that her mother and Mrs. Blake had gone out, and had 
sent her upstairs to keep Mr. Blake from being lone- 
some. However, it was none of my business whether 
these two made love or not : mind you, I have not 
said they did, so I asked for Miss Lulu, having brought 
her a piece of Eozoon Canadense, then a greater rarity 
than now. 

“ She had gone for a book to the library. Shall 1 
call her ?” said Miss Mayflower. 

I did not want to disturb her, so I said I would go 
myself. When Mrs. Blake and Mrs. Mayflower re- 
turned, the former announced her decision to carry 
Clooney otf home in a week’s time. There could be 
no possible objection to this, even Clooney saw that, 
and after seeing them all safely on the Quebec train — 
they were going from Quebec by boat — Mrs. and Miss 
Mayflower and I parted. I went to my country home, 
and whether I thought of Clooney, his sister, or even 
Miss Mayflower in the intervals of dolce far niente 
that interrupted my summer studies, is of no present 
interest to the reader. 

{To he continued.) 



EDUCATION IN THE PEOVINCE OF QUEBEC. 

In any country the elaboration and putting into 
practice of the best possible educational system is a 
matter of the utmost difficulty. But in a country 
such as that in which we live, where the people are 
divided into classes, upon lines of race, language and 
religion, such difficulties are enormously augmented. 
W e are confronted in this Province with two systems 
of education, little resembling each other, I might 
almost say hostile one to the other. The partizans of 
each system are uncompromising, not only believing 
their own system the best, but even believing the 
other radically bad. If the scope of education did 
not reach farther than the individual, this state of 
things might not be of so pernicious a character. 
But education has a much wider scope. In the mat- 
ter of education the State regards the individual, not 
as the ultimate object of its care, but rather as being 
one of the members of the body corporate, that is, of 
the nation. It is, undoubtedly, of high importance 
to any individual that he should receive a liberal 
education, but the State is not interested in that. 
The State assists education in order to advance its 
own material, intellectual, and moral condition. The 
State, therefore, will desire that all educational forces 
should operate in the same direction. The State may 
be compared to a huge ball upon which many forces 
are operating. The resultant direction and the rate 
of progress will depend upon the energy and direc- 
tion of individual forces. If two equal forces act 
upon a body at right angles, the resultant will be 



half-way between, but much less force applied in the 
direction actually attained would have accomplished 
the same result. Now, applying this analogy to the 
educational problem which we have to work out in 
this country, I would say that secular education stands 
at the head of all the progressive forces, which can 
be applied to our national life. 

The Protestant education and the Catholic are 
divergent from each other at least to the extent of 
ninety degrees (to apply such measurements to things 
which cannot be measured). The total result is not 
half what would be secured by the application of 
these forces in the same line. But what remedy can 
be proposed ? If each party is determined to pull 
off in the same line, the tendency will clearly be to 
increase the angle of divergence and so diminish the 
nett progress. To abandon this analogy, and say that 
I think it is a shame, that after a hundred years of 
government of this country under the British flag, 
there should exist here to-day two distinct peoples, 
without any common aims or aspirations, mutually 
distrustful the one of the other. This condition of 
things constitutes, to my mind, an uncontradictable 
proof of failure in the government of this country. 
What is it that keeps the people of this country 
isolated the one from the other? It is, undoubtedly, 
that which created confusion in Babel — the differ- 
ence of tongues. Differences of race and religion do, 
undoubtedly, contribute to the same result, but, in 
my judgment, only in a comparatively small degree. 
Without community of language, it is almost impos- 
sible that social relations should exist, and, perhaps, 
altogether impossible that intimate friendships should 
be formed. As matters have been for a hundred 
years, and are now going on, we never will attain 
homogeneity. The cultivation of the one race does 
not act upon the other ; there are no points of con- 
tact. The result is, undoubtedly, an immense loss of 
civilizing power. The conclusion I am coming to is 
this, that supposing it to be true, as we think it cer- 
tainly is, that our English educational methods are 
much superior to those of our French fellow-citizens, 
that we are walking in the higher paths, it would be 
better, if it be possible, to discover a path which all 
can pursue, a system which all can adopt, that we 
should adopt lower ground, that we should accept 
inferior methods, in order to advance the whole of 
our citizens upon common lines. We would thus be 
in a position to receive any beneficial influence that 
the civilization of our French fellow-citizens is cap- 
able of imparting to us, and we would also be in a 
position to exercise any influence which our own 
intellectual strength and activity would give us the 
right to expect. I do not intend at present to pursue 
this subject into any detail, but I shall indicate one 
preliminary requisite, viz., a common language, or 
rather, for the time being, at least, two common lan- 
guages, as a single one is, obviously, at present impos- 
sible. The necessity of a common language, with 
respect to its effect on national progress, was early 
recognized, and that by some of the most distin- 
guished French-Canadians of the time. The very 
first debate which occurred in our first representative 
assembly in 1791 (composed of fifteen English mem- 



1887.] 



UNIVEESITY GAZETTE. 



77 



bers and thirty-four French) concerned the use of a 
common language. Although the large majority of 
that body was French, the question raised was — not 
whether the English language should be used, but 
whether it should be exclusively used. Every Eng- 
lish member voted for the sole use of English, and 
they were joined by several French members of dis- 
tinction. P. L. Panet, a name well-known in Cana- 
dian history, addressing the assembly, said : — “ I 
maintain that we ought to choose a Speaker capable 
of speaking equally the two languages. Is it in 
French or in English that he must address the Gover- 
nor 1 To resolve this question I demand if this 
colony is French or English ? What language is 
spoken by the Sovereign and the Parliament from 
whom we hold our constitution 1 What is, in general, 
the language of the Empire? What is that of a por- 
tion of our co-citizens ? What will be that of Cana- 
dians and of the inhabitants of the whole Province 
at a future date? I am a Canadian, the son of a 
Canadian ; my language is the French language, but 
in consequence of the divisions which have existed 
among us, I have only been able to acquire a very 
imperfect knowledge of English, so that my present 
opinion will not be taken as interested. I am of 
opinion that it is an absolute necessity that in the 
course of time the Canadians should adopt the Eng- 
lish language, as the only means of dissipating the 
suspicions and aversions that the difference of lan- 
guage maintains between two peoples, united by cir- 
cumstances and obliged to live together.” 

On the other side, Mr. Joseph Papineau (also an 
historical name) exclaimed : — “ Is it because Canada 
forms part of the British Empire ; is it because the 
Canadians do not speak the language of the inhabi- 
tants on the banks of the Thames, that they must be 
deprived of their rights ? ” M. de Lotbini^re, in the 
midst of profound attention, remarked as follows : — 
“ The greater number of our electors finding them- 
selves in a peculiar situation, we are obliged to depart 
from the ordinary rules, and to claim the use of a 
language which is not that of the Empire. But as 
just towards others as we hope they will be towards 
us, we do not wish that our language should exclude 
that of the other subjects of His Majesty. We de- 
mand that both should be permitted, and our pro- 
ceedings should be recorded in the two languages.” 

M. de Rocheblare said: — “Why, then, are our 
* English brethren angry in seeing us determined to 
conserve our customs, our laws, and our maternal 
language, the only means which remains to us, to 
defend our property ? Would the sterile honour of 
seeing their language predominant, carry them to the 
point of taking away the force and energy of those 
laws, usages, and customs which form the security of 
their own fortune? Masters, without competition, 
of the commerce which our productions yield them, 
have they not infinitely to lose, in the general con- 
fusion which this injustice would infallibly pro- 
duce.” 

As a result, the two languages have been used in 
official documents ever since, but the common me of 
both has not spread from the Parliament and the 
Court to the people, and the suspicions and aversions 



which Panet foresaw as the result of difference of 
language, are maintained and accentuated. It is now 
clearly impossible to expect that a choice of one lan- 
guage should be made, but I do not think it impos- 
sible that we should overcome and dissipate the 
“ suspicions and aversions ” by the use of two. I 
venture to say, that to take the schools in the City 
of Montreal under the control of the Protestant Board 
as an example, a large percentage of the time of the 
children is taken up with a variety of subjects, the 
educational value of which is practically nil. I do 
not say that useless information is imparted, but I 
think the function of the school is not so much to 
impart information as to train the mind. I would 
have many of these subjects deferred to a later stage 
or relegated to the University. I would put French 
on a par with English, and have it taught as English 
is taught. It should be an essential qualification in 
a teacher to speak with fluency both languages. The 
studies, other than languages, should be conducted 
partly from English and partly from French text- 
books, and the children should be required to give 
their answers indifferently in either language. I feel 
sure that there would prove to be no difficulty in 
teaching English-speaking children, so that at the age 
of twelve they could indifferently and with equal 
facility use in conversation either English or French, 
and that result could be accomplished without seri- 
ously weakening general education, I do not propose 
to enter further into detail, but I close by saying that 
the increase of influence which our young men would 
have in the community, if so educated, would be 
simply incalculable. X. 



HOW WE CLEARED HIM. 

A detective’s story. 

Written for the University Gazette. 



“ Is science ever of any use to us ? ” asked the de- 
tective. “ W ell, sometimes it is, when we know enough 
about it to use it well. But we generally leave it to 
specialists. Of course, we have the electric detector, 
such as that in the Star office safe, and such things, 
but in the whole course of my professional career I 
remember only one or two cases in which we were 
helped out-and-out by science. Tell you about them ? 
Well, yes, I’ve got a spare half-hour, and since you 
reporters help us a good deal. I’ll give you an item.” 

So saying. Detective K , of the Montreal force, 

leaned back in his chair, crossed his legs, and clasped 
his hands to nurse the uppermost knee. 

“ It was in the Fall of 18 — , that I was called upon 
to act in a murder case. I was sitting here in the 
office one morning when a young lady came in, and 

asked me if Officer K was in. I made myself 

known to her, and then she told me one of the queer- 
est tales I ever heard. It seems that two young 
merchants, of this city, had fallen in love with her, 
and although they had previously been the best of 
friends, a coolness naturally arose between them. 
They still associated with one another, however, to a 



78 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1887 . 



certain extent; but now and then, when her name 
w IS mentioned, hot words would be exchanged. It 
seems that this had gone on for some months, when 
one of them, Mr. Preston, disappeared. He had been 
l.ist seen with Mr. Edmonds, and as he failed to turn 
up, the latter was arrested on suspicion of foul play. 
At the preliminary examination it was proved that 
they had been seen quarrelling near Bout de LTsle, 
whither they had gone fishing. Edmonds acknow- 
ledged this, but said that Preston had left him on 
account of the quarrel and returned to the city. As 
no one had seen Preston, Edmonds was committed 
for trial. 

“ By the way the girl spoke, I soon saw that she was 
head-over-ears in love with Edmonds, and as she was 
pretty and in trouble, she enlisted my sympathy. I 
told her that until Preston was found, Edmonds could 
not be convicted, and promised to help her to the 
best of my ability to clear her lover of the suspicions 
now held against him. She hinted that, as Preston 
knew her feelings, he might have gone off on purpose 
to fasten suspicion on Edmonds, and insisted upon 
New York and other places in search of 
him. there was some plausibility in this, as 

Preston was known to have had money on him, more 
than one usually takes on fishing excursions. So, 
after hunting in vain through the books of the various 
steamship companies, I started for New York. 

I hadn t been there two days before I received 
a telegram from my assistant, saying that Preston’s 
mui del ed body had been found in the river, near 
Bout de L Isle. This shattered my faith in Edmonds • 
so. pitying the girl, and wondering why men will 
commit any crime for love, I returned home. I was 
scarcely home an hour, when in rushed my youn<r 
lady again in a most woeful plight. ® 

‘p^-, ‘they have found 

Mr. Proton, and George is to be tried for his 

“Well sir, I was nonplussed. I believed in my 
heart that Edmonds was guilty, and there stood the 
gu-1, like a young tigress, storming at the imbecility 
of mankind in thinking her lover a murderer. I tried 
to shake her faith as much as I dared, telling her 
what a terrible thing jealousy is, and hinting that a 
man might well think a crime no obstacle to winning 
such a person as she. But she would not hear me 
out. bhe flew into a passion, and told me I was a 
fool and no detective, or I would have known her 
George was incapable of crime. And then she burst 
into tears, saying her family had deserted her, and 

Edit? 'belf° ““ “ 

“I do not mind a woman’s storm as long as it is 
only wind and thunder and lightning, but when t 
rains I’m no use. You’d think I w'a^ sugar wateJ 
melts me so easily. So what did I do but promise to 
move heaven and earth to save Edmonds, and stake 
my reputation upon the success of my endeavours 
She had offered me a liberal reward, but I was not 
prepared for the r«rard she gave me when I promised 
this. She jumped up out of her chair, and, SinTin^ 
her arms around my neck, kissed me. Yes, sir°sh? 
id , hut you are the first person I have told that’ to. 



“That afternoon I went down to the inquest on 
Preston’s body. The coroner was j'ust examining the 
doctor, who made the post-mortem examination, when 
I got there. The doctor said that Preston had been 
struck with a stone, a small piece of which had re 
mail ed in the wound. He produced the piece, which 
the jury examined, reluctantly on the part of some, 
and it was given to the coroner for deposit in court. 
I was also permitted to look at it, which I did, list- 
lessly, and from mere habit. It was a piece of lime- 
stone, with what looked like a shell in it. It cast no 
light upon the murder. This was all plain enough, 
and considering that the body had been found near 
where Preston and Edmonds had last been seen to- 
gether, the case seemed hopeless for Edmonds, against 
whom a verdict of wilful murder was returned. After 
the inquest, a strange desire to see the body came 
over me. The doctor was willing to show it to me, 
and together we entered the morgue, where it lay. 

“We spoke for a time about the articles found on 
the body, which had evidently been robbed, the pro- 
bable time that had elapsed since death, and then the 
instrument. 

‘ A bad case,’ said the doctor, ‘ and it will go hard 
with Edmonds. But why should he rifle the body ? ’ 

‘ Probably to put people off the track,’ I replied. 

‘ The blow must have been a terrible one,’ said 
the physician, ‘ for no light blow would have broken 
the rock with which he was struck.’ 

“I thanked the doctor for his kindness, left the 
place, and proceeded to the prison in which Edmonds 
was confined. The warden knew me, and admitted 
me to Edmonds’ cell, where I found the poor fellow 
m a dreadful state. 

All his friends had deserted him, as was natural 
under the circumstances, and he was broken down by 
their refusal to believe him innocent. He told me 
his story readily enough, although I had not told him 



in whose employ I was, but I learnt nothing new, 
except that the fishing excursion had been hastily 
arranged ; indeed, that Preston, who had been going 
0 the Island on a geological tour, for he was a bit of 
a scientist, met Edmonds at Vincent’s wharf, and 
accepted an invitation to go to Bout de L’Isle in- 

StGclCl, 

‘‘ ‘ money on him?’ I asked, 

es, he said that he had just received some con- 
science-money from an absconding clerk, but did not 
tell me how much.’ 

This was all I learned, so telling him the result 
if ^^^'^est, and urging him to plead self-defence 
If he had really killed Preston, I left. 

or days I haunted the Island for a clue to the 
^ in vain. Nor could I discover the 
whereabouts of the abscomling clerk to verify Ed- 

money, and thus in some 
denKvpS a^henticate his otlier assertions, for he still 

ti M i of fho “order. I 

T TPtnpmvT^ given up my search in despair, only that 

Miss Gordon, and was 
mv nffipp ^ myself baffled. Besides, she haunted 
ip^in iilter day, until my wife began to get 

tho '^d .young lady, how pale she grew during 

those days of ‘ hope deferred ! ' I would sometimes 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



79 



1887.] 



have been willing to take Edmonds’ place to save her 
from worry, only that I had a family of my own, and, 
besides, the law had to take its course. 

“ Well, to make a long story short, the day of the 
trial came, without my having got any nearer the end 
I had in view. In spite of his lawyer’s advice, Ed- 
monds persisted in denying the killing of Preston, 
and I believed him innocent, though I sometimes 
tended to accept the lawyer’s idea of the case, and 
put the murder down to ‘ unconscious criminality 
during a severe fit of mental aberration,’ or, in other 
words, that he killed Preston when crazy with rage, 
and did not remember the fact when reason returned. 
I remember it was on Thursday that the trial came 
olf. I had just got through a late breakfast, and was 
about to go down to the office, when Miss Gordon 
was announced. She had never before called at the 
house, and I knew at once that something was up. 
Her face was white and fixed like that of a statue, 
and her voice was strained and harsh as she asked : 

“ ‘ Is there anything new 1 ’ 

“ I shook my head, not daring to speak. 

“ ‘ There is no hope, then, for his trial is to-day?’ 

“ I was still silent. Her fingers plucked nerrmusly 
at the fur of her muff, and I ventured a side-glance 
at her. Then she spoke again. 

“ ‘ Tell me what you have done.’ 

“ So I told her of my daily hunt for the absent 
clerk — a forlorn hope ; of the scrutiny of the Island 
until winter set in, and of the aimless search for the 
unknown murderer. Then she made me tell her the 
whole case over again from the start, and listened in 
stony silence as I went on. I passed over the de- 
scription of the discovery and condition of the corpse, 
as I had always done in the many other accounts I 
had given her, for this was an old question of hers. 

“ She sighed wearily, and rose as if to go. Sud- 
denly, as an animal driven to bay turns to any loop- 
hole that presents itself, she turned to me and said : 

“ ‘ You saw the body, sir. Describe it to me.’ 

“ I stared at her. She passed her hand across her 
forehead. 

“ ‘ I am not crazy, Mr. K , though, heaven 

knows, I might well be. Perhaps it was not Mr. 
Preston whom you found, or he may have been 
drowned.’ 

“ ‘ Indeed, Miss Gordon, it was Mr. Preston, and 
he was murdered,’ I replied. ‘ A small fragment of 
the rock, which caused his death, was still in the 
wound when he was found.’ 

‘A piece of rock,’ she repeated. ‘Was it kept?’ 
“ ‘Yes, it was deposited in court. You can see it 
by asking permission, or, if you will go with me, I 
will show it to you.’ 

“ ‘ Of what use Avould that be? ’ she exclaimed. 

“I leaned my head upon my hand and tried to 
think of some plan to save Edmonds. 

“ A faint click, whose sound seemed familiar, made 
me look up. Wlien I did so, I was horror-stricken. 
Miss Gordon was facing me, smiling a little, with her 
hand to her bosom, where, for the first time, I saAV 
the butt-end of a revolver showing. Before I could 
rise she drew the weapon out and presented it at her 
heart. 



“‘One moment, Mr. K ,’ she said; ‘if you 

rise, I fire. You have done your best, I suppose, and 
failed. I cannot live to see him sentenced. Tell him 
I did my best for him.’ 

“ While she had been speaking, the door behind 
her was opened, unknown to her, and two gentlemen 
entered. One of them seemed to comprehend the 
situation at a glance, and, just as her finger tightened 
on the trigger, sprang forwards and wrenched the 
pistol from her hand. It was discharged in the 
struggle, but the bullet found a less precious billet 
in the wall above her head. I had no time to ask 
any questions, for Miss Gordon went off into hysterics 
and fought like a maniac. It needed my wife’s assist- 
ance to quiet her, which we succeeded in doing after 
some time, and she was taken to another room. 

“It turned out that the gentlemen were Miss Gor- 
don’s father and brother, and that, having missed her, 
and fearing for her reason on that trying day, they 
had set out in search of her. A friend had directed 
them to me, and they arrived at my house just in 
time to save her from suicide. 

“ While young Mr. Gordon and I were conversing, 
his father, who had gone to see his daughter, returned. 
His face was very grave. 

“ ‘ Charlie,’ he said, ‘ will you and Mr, K come 

with me up to the court ? My unfortunate girl insists 
on attending the trial, and I dare not refuse her.’ 

“ As we made our way through the crowd that 
always gathers at a murder trial, all eyes were fastened 
upon us, and a murmur ran through the room. Mr. 
Gordon, with his daughter, did not appear to notice 
the attention they attracted, and as for the poor girl, 
she saw but one person in that throng, and pressed 
forward towards him. You can guess who he was. 

“ As witness after Avitness Avas examined, and the 
circumstantial evidence piled up higher and higher 
against Edmonds, the agitation of Miss Gordon became 
most painful to witness. Her father gently passed 
his arm around her waist and drew her to him. As 
for Edmonds, except that he made an involuntary 
motion towards her as she entered, he was as motion- 
less as a statue. All his soul seemed concentrated in 
his eyes, which he never took off his sweetheart dur- 
ing the rest of the trial. 

“The fragment of rock, which was found in the 
wound, was produced, and passed over to the jury 
for inspection. With their usual morbid curiosity, 
the spectators near by craned their necks to catch a 
glimpse of the rock. Amongst those who thus caught 
sight of the fragment were two gentlemen, Avhom I 
noticed immediately engaged in an earnest conversa- 
tion. They beckoned to me in an excited manner, 
and I joined them, though with difficulty. 

“ ‘ Is that the stone found in the murdered man’s 
brain ? ’ asked one of them, 

“ ‘ Yes,’ I replied. 

“ ‘ And the murder is said to have been committed 
at Bout de L’Isle?’ broke in the other. 

“ ‘ Yes.’ 

“ ‘ Well, then,’ said the first, ‘ the murder was never 
committed at Bout de L’Isle or anywhere else, except 
on Ste. Helen’s Island, for this stone is found in no 
place near Montreal except on the Island.’ 



HU 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1887 . 



“ I wheeled about, and telling them to follow me, 
fought my way back to the witness-box. Edmonds’ 
lawyer was just finishing his speech to the jury, and 
had not made a favourable impression for the prisoner. 
As he saw us elbowing our way unceremoniously 
through the crowd, he frowned; then, seeming to 
understand what we were about, he hesitated and 
stopped short. I stooped over and whispered to him. 
He started, and then excitedly addressed the judge : 

“ ‘ May it please the court, I have another witness 
to call, whose evidence will completely exonerate my 
client of the charge against him. I can prove that 
Mr. Preston was murdered at Ste. Helen’s Island and 
not at Bout de L’Isle, thus establishing an alibi for 
Mr. Edmonds.’ 

“The judge answered with some sternness : ‘Call 
your witness, Mr. K , but if your evidence is un- 

important, you will bring upon yourself the censure 
of the court.’ 

“ A dead silence filled the room as the examination 

of Prof. J began. 1 need not give you the whole 

examination, but will just state the chief j)articulars. 
It had been shown that Mr. Preston had contem- 
plated visiting Ste. Helen’s Island, that he was mur- 
dered with a rock, a fragment of which remained in 
his head, and now, from the species of limestone and 

the shell iu it. Prof. J swore that the rock was 

of Lower Helderberg limestone, and that this lime- 
stone is found in the neighbourhood of Montreal only 
on the Island. Under these circumstances, Mr. 
Edmonds, who had been proved to have been at 
Bout de L’Isle when Mr. Preston disappeared, was 
exonerated. 

“ When the evidence was concluded, the judge 
charged the jury, who, without leaving their box, 
returned a verdict of ^ Not Guilty!' Amid the 
cheers that greeted this verdict, I heard a woman’s 
scream, and turned in time to see Miss Go i don carried 
fainting from the room. 

“ I was invited to a quiet wedding a few months 
after this, and you can guess who were the contracting 
parties. I also lived to capture the real murderer, 
of whom I may give you an account another time.” 

“B. Ap. Sc.” 

JncfBill Isfeujs. 



CHRISTMAS EXAMINATIONS, 1886. 



FACULTY OF ARTS.* 



These Examinations include only some of the subjects 
of the Lectures of the previous Terms. 






Third 1 ear— Class f-Day, Duke; Campbell and Morison ar 
Simpson, equal ; Macallum ; Bryan and Pedley, equal. Class II • 

Lindsay and Mason, equal ; Ilowitt. Class III.— Thurlow. 

'First YEAR-Class I.-McDougall. Abbott, Mack, Sutherlam 
NichplLs Kinghorn ; Corcoran and Fry, equal ; Daley and Hall (R 
equal : Davidson and Martell, equal ; Ault and Robertson, equa 
Class II.— Tolmie, Colcl^gh, Berwick, Reed; Hall (A.), Mills an 
Trenholme equal; MoDuffee and Richardson, equal ; Mc(}rego 
Tory and Walsh, equal. Class Ilf.-Mathewson and Qu mby , equal 
Cameron, Hunter, Hodges. McCaskill, Paton, Ross. ^ 



LATIN. 

Third Year— Class L— Day,*S7wp>?ow, Bryan, Duke, Morison. Cros- 
and McFee, equal. Class IL— AVlcPhail, Murray ; Martin and Bry^ 
son, equal. Class III.— Mass^ and Palmer, equal; England and 
Murphy^ equal ; Sweeny. 

SecOaND Year— C lass l.Squire, Stevenson. 7?eicZ, Rogers, Gibson, 
Wilnon. Class Henderson, Swanson, Garth, Robertson, Jamie- 
son, Truel, McCusker. Class 111 — Decks, Holden, Walsh. Turner, 
xVlcKenzie, Lucas. 

First Year— Class 1,— Williams, Daley; Abbott and Mack, equal ; 
Corcoran and McDougall, equal; Fry, Scott, Colclough, Dougall, 
Nicholls; Hall (R.) and Tolmie. equal ; Cameron ; Davidson (Peers) 
andReed, equal. Class IL - Hall (A ); Kinghorn, Martell and Robert- 
son, equal; Hunter, Mathewson, Sutherland, Tory, Botterell (./.), 
Richardson; Mills, Quimby and Walsh, equal; Cowie and Trenholme, 
equal; Ault, Davidson {C.) and McDutfee, equal. Class III. — Bot- 
terell (J ), McFarlane, McGregor, Berwick, Paton* Hodges, Ross, 
Elliott, Dunlop, McCaskill. 

MENTAL AND MORAL PHILOSOPHY. 

Fourth Year— (Moral Philosophy)— Class L— Johnston (R.), Mur- 
ray, Cameron, Clay, Nichols, Kingston, Brown ; McLennan and 
Whyte, equal. Class IL— Naismith, Deeprose and Henderson and 
aMc A rthur, equal ; Bourne, McLeod (M.) and Russell, equal ; Gerrie ; 
Caldwell and Sanders, equal ; Langton, .McKenzie (M.). Class III.— 
Galley, Solaudt, .Vledd, iMcAdie, Meek, Wells, Carpenter. 

Third YEARMAdditional Department in Mental Philosophy)— 
Class I. — McFee, Cross, Lindsay. Class II. — Mason and Pedley, 
equal ; Howitt, Thurlow. Class III. — England, Murphy, Bryson. 

Second Year— (Psychology)— Class 1,—McBratney, Wilson; Reid 
and Squire, equal; Robertson and Turner, equal; Jamieson, Lee, 
Gibson; Morgan and Stevenson, equal; Darey, Decks, McKenzie, 
ivlass II. — Swanson, Truell, Garth, Henderson, Meighen, Davey. 
Class III.— Lucas ; Gunn and Rogers, equal ; Moore, Holden ; Austin 
and AMcCiisker, equal ; Walsh, Charters. 

ENGLISH literature AND ANALYSIS. 

First Year — Class I. — Abbott and Williams, equal; Nicholls, 
Davidson (Peers) and Mf^rgan and Botterell («/.), equal ; Sutherland 
and Daley, equal ; Pangman and Scott (N.), equal ; AMcDougall, Stay- 
ner. Class 11— McFarlane and Mathewson and Vipond, equal ; Cor- 
coran ; McGregor and Cameron and Kinghorn and Kennedy, equal ; 
Davidson Robertson and Berwick and Tolmie, equal ; Walsh 

and Austin, equal ; xMartell and Tory, equal; Fry and Hall (A.R.), 
equal; Trenholme, McDutfee and Hunter and Reed and Botterell (/. ) 
and Dougall, equal ; Richardson. Class III. — Colclough and Paton, 
equal ; Lee, Cowie and Hall (R.S.) and Mack, equal ; Elliott. Dun- 
lop and Mills and Quimby, equal ; Davey, Ault, Ross, xVlc(3askill, 

H utchison, 

FRENCH. 

Second Year— C lass I.-— WiY^oa, Rogers, Squire, Stayner, Johnson, 
Iruell, Retd. Class II. — Jamieson, Walsh, Turner, Henderson, Mor- 
gan, Garth Class III. — McKenzie and Holden, equal ; Moore. 

First YF.AR-Class L-Davidson {€.), Williams, Botterell (/.), 
Corcoran, Abbott and Cameron, equal; Mathewson; Aicholls and 
Reed, equal ; DaviMson (P.i, Claxton (L.)and Ncott, equal ; Robert- 
son ; Elliott and Fr>^ and McDougall, equal; Dunlop and Tolmie, 
equal ; Botterell U.), Hall (R.S.). Class II. — Martell and McFarlane, 
equal; Kinghorn and Trenholme, equal; Mack and McDutfee, 
equal; Colclough, Cowie, Ross. Class III.— Hall (Alex.), Walsh, 
Moj'gan, Mills ; Nesbitt and Paton, equal. 

german. 

Third YEAR--Class I.-Jo^n«on iH.), Martin, Ritchie, McFarlane, 
Van Horne, Palmer, Class IL — Cross, Murray, Class 111. — Murphy, 

Second Year Class I. Johnson {H,), Reid and Turner, equal ; 

Class II,-None. Class 

I.-W,-«,aws. Abbott; Scott (S.B.), Daley and 
ougall, equal , 5of(ere/i (/.), Botterell (J.) and Davidson, equal; 
Ma^arlane (1/.). Class il— Morgan (C.M.), Ault. Class III.— 

HRBREW. 

I-~Forbes and Bouebard, equal ; Ves- 
^^rwick, Sutherland and Tory, equal; Lambly, 
SSf® ’ II -McCaskill. Hodges. Class III. - 

ASTRONOMY. 

w : Johnson (A.R.) and Johnston 

Ili.-^Nicb'ols. Kingston. Class II.-McArthur. Class 

mechanics. 

Cla« Tr — K— Le Rossignol, Giles, Ritchie. 

Kon Nafsmkh (P tT’ Class III.-Mass6, 

ryson, iNaismitU tP.L.), Murphy, Duke, Sweeny, England. 

MATHEMATICS. 

N^lfoBg I.— iriWiaHM, McDougall ; Corcoran and 

Dilv d^on Ip f II. -Reed, Sutherland, 

eaual- Vcoi/ V ’ K'nghorn and Tory, 

(A W T-). Dougall. Class III.-Ault, 

holmreaiml • S.h Fry and Tren- 



1887.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



81 



GEOLOGY AND MINERALOGY. 

Fourth Year — Class I. — Murray and Walsh, equal ; Brown, King- 
ston, McLeod, Bourne and McArthur, equal* Class II. — Gerrie, 
Solandt. Class III. — McKenzie, Hastings. 

OCCASIONAL (taking Geology only). 

Class L“Baldwin, Hunt, Ren wick. Class IL— Truax. 

ZOOLOGY. 

Third- Year —Class I. — Lc Rossignol, Hunter; Cross and Giles, 
equal ; Campbell, McFee and McPhail, equal ; Ritchie ^ Evans and 
Pedley, equal ; McLea, McCallum, Naismith, Day and Simpson, 
equal. Class II. — Rainier^ Mass6, Murray ^ Thurlow, Murphy ^ Lind* 
say, Morison. Class III —Sweeny. 

PARTIAL and OCCASIONAL. 

Class I. —Baldwin and Kerruish, equal ; Truax. Class II.— Hunt. 
Class III.— Walters. 

botany. 

Second Year — Class I. — WiY^on, Deeks, SQuire, Evans, Reid; 
Henderson and Turner, equal ; Garth, Truell ; Stevenson and John- 
ston, equal ; Kennedy, Class II.— Gibson aud Walsh, equal; Jamie- 
son, Meighen ; McCusker and Medd, equal ; Morgan, Wells, Galley. 
Class III. — Caldwell, Carpenter, Holden, Lucas, Mackenzie, Moore, 
Robertson, Rogers, Swanson. 

CHEMFSTRY* 

First Year — Class I. — Williams, Nicholls, Scott, Squire, Abbott, 
Corcoran, Daley. Class II.— McDougall, Archibald ; Phillips and 
Sutherland, equal ; Stayner, Robertson, Botterell ( J.) and Morgan, 
equal; Berwick Botterell U,), Davidson and Mathewson, equal; 
Mack, McGregor. Class III* -Davidson (C.), Tolmie and Tory, 
enual; Elliott, Hall (R. S.), Kennedy, Ross, Hunter, Macfarlane, 
Mills, Walsh, Cameron, Trenholme, Fry, Hall (A. R.), Ault, King- 
horn, Nesbitt, Paton, Richardson, McCaskill, Colclough, Reed. 

* Names in italics are lady students. 



Societies. 



UNDERGRADUATES’ LITERARY SOCIETY. 

The opening meeting of the Society for this term 
was held on Friday, January 7th, the President in the 
chair. 

After a few introductory, remarks, the chairman in- 
troduced Eev. Dr. Cornish, who had kindly consented 
to address the members of the Society. The Kev- 
erend gentleman having sketched the literature and 
learning of the middle ages, went on to give a most 
interesting and detailed description of the constitution 
of the Mediaeval Universities, after which he briefly 
noticed the collegiate course, and closed with the re- 
mark that we have much to learn from the curriculum 
of the ancients. 

This paper was particularly interesting and instruc- 
tive to us, as students, showing as it'did the origin of 
many of our customs and institutions. A hearty vote 
of thanks to the lecturer was carried amid prolonged 
applause. 

After the members had settled a few matters of 
business, the motion to adjourn seemed to meet with 
general approval. 

Y. M. C. A. NOTES. 

It is now probable that the Y.M.C. A. building will 
be combined with a dining hall. The scheme of a 
combined building has met with the approval of both 
the Board of Governors and the Y.M.C. A. Building 
Committee. The Governors will, also, grant a site on 
the college-grounds, if means are raised for a suitable 
building? They have ordered sketch plans to be 
prepared. 

The Day of Prayer for Colleges is Thursday, Jan- 
uary 27 th. 



THE FOOTBALL MATCH. 

I. 

0 wild kaleidoscopic panorama of jaculatory arms and legs. 

The twisting, twining, turning, tussling, throwing, thrusting, 

throttling, tugging, thumping, the tightened thews. 

The tearing of tangled trousers, the jut of giant calves pro- 
tuberant. 

The wriggleness, the wormlike, snaky movement and life of 
it. 

The insertion of strong men in the mud, the wallowing, the 
stamping with thick shoes. 

The rowdyism, and 4lan, the slugging and scrapping, the cow- 
boy Homeric ferocity. 

(Ah, well kicked, red legs I Hit her up, you mud 'y little hero, 
you I) 

The bleeding noses, the shins, the knuckles abraded : 

That^s the way to make men I Go it, you border ruffians, I 
like ye. 

II. 

Only two sorts of men are any good, I wouldn^t give a cotton 
hat for no other — 

The Poet and the Plug Ugly. They are picturesque. 0, but 
ain’t they ? 

These college chaps, these bouncing fighters from McGill and 
Toronto, 

Are all right* I must have a fighter, a bully, somewhat of a 
desperado ; 

Of course, I prefer them raw, uneducated, unspoiled by book 
rot ; 

1 reckon these young fellows, these howling Kickapoosof the 

puddle, these boys 

Have been educated to an undemocratic and feudal-aristocra- 
tic extent ; 

Lord! how they can kick, though! Another man slugged 
there ! 

III. 

Unnumbered festoons of pretty Canadian girls, I salute you ; 

Howl away, you non-playing encouragers of the kickers ! 

Rah, Rah, Rah, Rah, Rah, Rah, McGill ! 

Rah, Rah, Rah, Sis. Boom, Toronto ! Lusty-throated give it ! 

0, wild, tumultuous, multitudinous shindy. Well, this is the 
boss ; 

This is worth coming twenty miles to see. Personally, I 
haven’t had so much fun since I was vaccinated. 

I wonder if the Doctor spectates it. Here is something be- 
yond his pleseosauri. 

Purely physical glow and exultation this of abundantest 
muscle : 

I wish John Sullivan were here. 

IV. 

0, the kicking, stamping, punching, the gore and the glory 
of battle ! 

Kick, kick, kick, kick, kick, kick. you kick ! 

You kickers, scoop up the mud, steam plough the field. 

Fall all over yourselves, squirm out! Look at that pile-driver 
of a full-back there ! 

Run, leg it, hang on to the ball ; say, you big chump, don’t you 
kill that little chap 

When you are about it. 

Well, I’d like to know what a touch down is, then ? Draw ? 

Where’s your draw ? 

Yer lie I — — Adapted, 

Sporting. 



HOCKEY. 

The first match for the Hockey Championship was 
played in the Crystal Rink on Friday, January 7th. 
McGill faced her old opponents, the Crystals. The 
Crystals were weakened by the desertion to the M. A. 
A. A. of some of their best players ; while our own 
boys were demoralized by the holidays. After a very 
severe struggle, the score stood three to one against 
McGill. 

The most marked deficiency on our side was the 
want of team-play : this is too evident in most of our 
matches. During the holidays the whole team was 
never on the ice : and there have never been enough 
players to allow of a team-practice. But let the boys 
practice into better trim, and then try again ! 



82 



UNIVEESITY GAZETTE. 



[1887. 



DREAMS.* 

I sit alone in the empty house 
This glorious summer night, 

Without the sound of even a mouse 
To put my dreams to flight. 

- The hawk that screamed in the twilight sky 
Is silent now, and flown ; 

And the soft footfall of a passer by 
But makes me feel more lone. 

My thoughts the happy present leave 
To dream of my future life, 

And in the fancies that they weave 
Thou, dearest, art my wife. 

And though on this same lounge I lie, 

I seem not lonely now, 

But dream that thou art standing by. 

Thy hand upon my brow. 

I dream, though why, I cannot guess. 

That time has given me grief, 

But that thy loving hand's caress 
Has brought in turn relief. 

I hear the voice of a little child. 

The patter of tiny feet. 

Then looking up, meet thy glances mild 
And know that life is sweet. 

Arthur Weir. 

♦ I had long badgered my bachelor friend for some of the early 
poems connected with his unfortunate love affair and at last, after 
much hesitation on his part and expresssed sympathy on mine, he 
opened a private drawer in his desk and handed me a manuscript 
tied with a faded blue ribbon. With his permission I reproduce this 
poem from among a number devoted to the same subject.— A. W. 



Personals. 



F. W. Hibbard, Arts '86, is teaching in Sutton, and 
is a great favorite. 

We are creditably informed that E. De F. Holden 
has been converted, and is now travelling as a revival 
preacher. He is an ex-member of class ’88 in medicine, 
and of the Gazette directoral staff. 

P. D. Eoss, B. Ap. Sci., ex-managing editor of the 
Montreal Star, has bought an interest in the Ottawa 
Evening Journal, and has gone to reside in that city. 
That paper is being run by old McGill men and 
University Gazette editors, A. H. U. Colquhoun 
being its editor-in-chief. 

Sidney C. Chubb, B.A. ’77, was married on the 
11th November, at St. James Church, New Yoik, to 
Mary Eugenia Ely. Mr. Chubb is now a successful 
huvyer in New York, and resides at 6 East 58th Street. 
Mr. Chubb was Captain of the old University Company 
in the Prince of Wales Rifles.. 

The following members of the Medical class of ’86 
have passed the final Examinations of the Royal 
Colleges of Physicians and Surgeons of Edinburgh, and 
the Faculty of Physicians and Surgeon.s of Glasgow, and 
have accordingly been admitted Licentiates : — Walter 
W. White, B.A. M.D. C M. ; F. J. Seery, M.D. C.M. 
J. A. Kinloch, M.D. C.M. ; Thos. J. Haythorne, B.A. 
M.D. C.M. ; F. S. Robertson, B.A. M.D. C. M. Dr. 
Haythorne was an ex-editor of the Gazette in by gone 
days. We congratulate the boys. 



“ All alone, my dear child! I’m afraid that husband 
of yours neglects you terribly. He’s always at the club 
when I call.” — “ Yes, mamma, but he’s at home at 
other times.” 



Between the Lectures. 



Professor in astronomy : Mr. J., can 

what constellation the sun will enter next 1 ” ‘‘ Can’t 

Sir.” Professor : “ Correct — the constellation of 

Cancer.” 

“ Yes,” said Miss Penn, “ I rejected Mr. Hogg. 
Nice fellow, but I couldn’t have the announcement of 
mv marriage appear in the paper under the headline 
of Hogg-Penn.” 

Little Bess: “Tommy, do you think Noah took 

bees into the ark!” Master Tommy: “Why, of 

course, he did.” “ But wouldn’t they have stung Noah 
and the animals ! Where did he keep ’em ! ” “I don’t 
know. In the arc-hives, I guess.” 

He continually played on the cornet, “ Sweet Spirit, 
Hear My Prayer.” The maiden lady next door sent 
word, with compliments, that she heard his prayer, 
and would pay a month’s lodging for him in advance 
if he’d move to another part of the town. 

According to a correspondent of a daily paper, the 
handsomest man in New York is a down-town Broad- 
Avay policeman. When an officer helps a correspondent 
home in the morning, he should be rewarded ; but 
reward him with hard cash, and not flattery. 

Lady (at an intelligence office, about to engage a new 
servant) : “ Now, Bridget, in regard to going out visit- 

ingj I ” Bridget (interrupting) : “ 0, mum, you 

kin go out whiniver ye plase. You’ll not find Bridget 
Lannigan hard, mum, nor dictatorial like ! ” 

It is related that one of our young married graduates, 
going home very early the other morning and endeavor- 
ing to steal quietly to the spare room without awakening 
his wife, was fairly paralyzed by a clear, wide-awake 
voice saying. “What was the limit. Dear!” She 
had sized him up. 

“ Is the earth round or flat ! ” asked a member of 
a school committee of a candidate for a position as 
teacher. “Well,” answered the candidate, “7’mnot 
particular about that. Some likes it round, and some 
likes it flat, and some others likes it square. I teach 
it any way that suits.” 

“ I shall teach you to speak properly, and then to 
write as you speak,” said a teacher in the public schools. 
“ Poor Billy Wilcox ! ” said a little voice, apparently 
involuntarily. “ What about Billy ! ” asked the teach- 
er. — “Please, ma’am, he speaks through his nose — he 
will have to write through his nose.” 

Black : “ They tell me that your wife is quite a 
whistler.” White : “ She is ; whistles most of the 
time.” Black: “And you allow it! Don’t it annoy 
you!” White : “ It don’t annoy me, and as for allow- 
ing it, I encourage her in it.” Black ; “ Why ! ” 
White : “ Because a woman can’t talk and whistle at 
the same time.” 

Sunday school superintendent (who has just been 
endeavoring to impress upon the minds of the scholars 
the lesson of the long life of the prophet Elijah, and 
the punishment of the irreverent children by bears) — 



1887.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE, 



83 



“ Now, can any one tell me why the bears ate the chil- 
dren?” Wee small voice (after a long pause) — 

“ ’Cause they thought ’Lijah was too old.” 

Customs ofi&cer, to student going home for the holi- 
days — “ What have you in that parcel ? ” 

“ Only my laundry.” 

“ Open it and let me see.” 

Man reluctantly opens package, disclosing shirts, 
collars, cuffs, etc., and a bottle. 

“ I thought you had nothing but laundry in that 
paper. What’s in the bottle ? ” 

“ Night-caps.” 

“ Pass on, sir.” 

“ That’s a chestnut bell you’ve got up in the steeple 
of your church, isn’t it? ” inquired little Johnny Crim- 
sonbeak of the minister, who was calling on his mother, 
the other day. 

“ Oh, no, my son,” replied the sober man ; “ why did 
you think so ? ” 

“ Why, mamma told me a chestnut was anything 
that had been told before, and I’m sure your bell’s been 
tolled before.” 

Then the youthful Johnny went out to hunt cats. 

Harvard Senior (with emotion) — “ Yale has beaten 
us again ! ” 

Cambridge Charmer — “ Oh, I’m just too sorry for 
anything ! Was it a race? ” 

“ No ; a Yale senior has been lecturing in New 
Jersey.” 

“What were his subjects? ” 

“ He opened with ‘The Eelgrass Basis of Civilization’ 
and closed with ‘How to Be Gentle in Foot Ball.’” 
“ What can be done about it ? ” 

“ I don’t see but I shall have to give a course of 
lectures at the Lowell institute.” 

Aunt Cecilia (to Lulu) — “ My dear Lulu, Mr. Smith- 
ers, from England, is coming to-night and I wish you 
to take a lesson from him in English, he talks so 
nicely.” After the call, she said : — 

“ Well, my dear, did you hear how nicely Mr. 
Smithers spoke ? ” 

Lulu — “ Oh, yes, aunty ; I heard him talking out- 
side to the hackman.” 

Aunty — “ And what did he say, my dear ? ” 

Lulu “ He said, ‘ You infernal swindler, I’ll smash 

d j M 
— 

Lesson in English summarily stopped. 

“ This is a pretty time of night for you to be getting 
in, Mr. Crimsonbeak ! ” exclaimed Mrs. B., Avhen her 
boarder returned home late the other night, slightly 
under the influence of a full moon, or something more 
exhilarating. 

“ Why hie — , I don’t see anything the matter with 

the— hie— time,” was his reply, vainly trying to get 
his optic on the mantel timepiece. 

“ Well, if you could look straight enough, Mr. Crim- 
sonbeak, you would see that it is 12.30 o’clock. You 
should have been home full two hours ago.” 

“ Impossible,— hie— impossible for me to be home 
full two hours ago.” 

“ And why was it impossible, I should like to know ? 



said Mrs. B., looking as though she could chew him up, 
in her anger. 

“ Because,” explained the jolly man, “ because 
— hie — I wasn’t full two hours ago.” 

We parted in silence, we parted by night, 

On the bank of a beautiful river ; 

No sound but a gurgle, as out of my sight 
Swift she sank with scarcely a shiver. 

The nightingale warbled, the stars sweetly shone. 

And though she will rise again never ; 

No sorrow was shown for the life that had flown. 

For that cat is silent forever. 



College T^tlorlb. 



PnoF.Huxley retires on a pension of $7,500. 

For some weeks Mr. Herbert Spencer has been un- 
able to go about except in a wheel-chair. 

Professor Goldwin Smith will deliver eighteen 
lectures on English history this winter at Cornell 
University. 

Some of the medical students of Toronto have formed 
themselves into a temperance league, with pledges 
against drinking and treating. 

The son of the late Ex-President Arthur and the 
‘two sons of the late President Garfield are studying at 
the Columbia College Law School this year. 

Mr. Blaine’s college days were spent in Little "Wash- 
ington. One of the college buildings is still standing 
and is now used as the library of Washington and 
Jefferson College. 

Hereafter the students at the State Scientific 
School, Rutgers College, in addition to the military 
drill, will receive instructions in marksmanship on a 
range in the suburbs of the city. 

General Henry B. Carrington, of Boston, has pre- 
sented to the library of Yale University the original 
manuscript of an address delivered by the Rev. J ames 
Beebe, Yale class of 1745, to the soldiers be led to 
Canada in the French and Indian war. 

President Eliot, of Harvard university, often ex- 
presses his regret that, owing to the number of his 
administrative duties, he is able to become acquainted 
Avith so few of his students. Harvard men declare 
that he is the only college president in America whom 
the students do not nickname. 

The Rev. Hr. E. M. Wood, of the Pittsburgh Con- 
ference, has been elected to the chair of Mental and 
Moral Science and professor of Greek and Latin in 
Curry Institute, Pittsburgh, Pa. This institution 
registered in 1885 over a thousand students. It is to 
be congratulated on this last addition to its faculty. 

It has been supposed that the name “ Columbia ” 
Avas first used in America in 1775 ; but Colonel Albert 
H. Hoyt has found it in a volume of poems composed 
in 1781, mostly by HarA'ard graduates, in commemo- 



84 



UNIVEESITY GAZETTE. 



[1887. 



ration of George II. and congratulation of George III., 
and in poems printed in the “Massachusetts Gazette ” 
of April 26, 1764. 

A sketch of Harvard published in one of the Sun- 
day papers was suggestive in its illustrations, at least, 
of the new education at the university. Instead of 
publishing the portraits of the prominent Professors, 
or of those students having the highest standing in 
the classes, the portraits of the tennis champion, a 
lootball rusher, a crack oarsman, and the Captain of 
the baseball club are given. What would the founders 
ol the college say if they could witness the new depar- 
ture 1 

A SHORT time since, says the Gardeners' Chronicle, 
the eminent and philosophical surgeon. Sir James 
Paget, speaking of his early studies in botany, remarked 
that if he could trace no direct advantage to himself 
in his career as a practical surgeon, from his early 
studies in botany, “ no words could exaggerate their 
indirect value to him as a mental discipline.” Praise 
of this sort is common with respect to classical studies, 
but quite unusual as respects the natural history 
sciences. 

At a recent meeting of the authorities of Dickinson 
College it was decided to admit to the Preparatory De- 
partment Eobert, the young son of the colored janitor 
of the college, who recently made application foradmis- 
sion. The matter causes much excitement among the 
students, and they were informed that those who. 
intended to leave college should hand in their resi'^na- 
tions and they would be accepted. All kinds of 
threats have been made against the colored boy and 
the officers of the college. 

In the German Empire there are noAV twenty univer- 
sities, with a little over 28,000 students. The largest 
are— Berlin, Avith 4,434 students ; Leipsic, 3,069 • 
Munich, 3,035 ; Halle, 1,518 ; Breslau, 1,425 , Tubin- 
gen, 1.403; Wurtzberg, 1,369; Bonn, 1,293; Gottin- 
gen, 1,076; Frieburg, 1.319; Heidelberg (Avhich 
celebrated this year its 500th anniversary), 1,066. 
The remaining nine universities are Greifwal’denj 
Marburg, Erlangen, Konigsberg, Strassburg, Jena’ 
Kiel, Giessen, Eostock, with numbers from 1,018 to’ 
313. Erlangen has 909, Jena 650, Kiel 542. 

Italy has twenty-one universities — one more than 
Germany. They are divided into two classes, those 
which receive State support and those which do not. 
The first class includes Turin, Genoa, Pavia, Padua 
Pisa, Bologna, Eome, Naples, Palermo, and Messina! 

Naples has the largest number of students 3,900— 

Avhile the smallest number — thirty-nine is fo’und at 

Ferrara, which was once for Italy what Weimar was 
to Germany— the seat of the greatest minds of the a^^e 
—and which, therefore, desperately clings to the pri- 
vilege of being a university town. Turin has 2 100 
Eome 1,200, Bologna 1,160 students. All the others 
excepting Pavia have fewer than a thousand. Futile 
efforts have been repeatedly made to reduce this use- 
lessly large number of high schools. Theolo^v is not 
taught at any Italian university, but lectures on Chuch 
history are included sometimes in the philosophic 
cou.rs6s* 



(t^orresponCfence. 



DINNEE OE CONVEESAZIONE. 

To the Editors University Gazette : — 

Dear Sirs, — No one can enter the Centre Hall of 
the Arts Building without noticing some unusual 
excitement. There is much excited talking and dis- 
puting ; and cries of ‘ Dinner' and ‘ Conversazione ’ are 
lieard on all sides. The bone of contention is the all 
engrossing dinner question : — “ Are we to have a 
Dinner or a Conversazine 1 ” 

What the dinner is, we all know. But, how will 
you manage a conversazione 1 The scheme, as it now 
stands, is as follows : — that the men students in our 
faculty hold a conversazione in, say, the Museum or 
the ]\Iolson Hall — that they invite all the lady 
students — and also outsiders until the Avhole gathering 
would number about three hundred. ° 

To look very practically at the question, and from a 
monetary point of view, the subscription for each man 
student would be, at most, one dollar. This will re- 
move much of the objection to our dinner. The 
theological element is ‘ going solid ’ for the conver- 
sazione, which it never did for a dinner. The ladies.- 
too, must be recognised in any gathering of the ‘ Faculty 
of Arts, constituting as they do about one third of it, 
numerically. And many of them have expressed 
themselves much pleased at this scheme. 

Some of the Freshies are against the new idea 
because they knoAV dinners by reputation, only : while 
very few of the older men care to go in for a dinner 
when contrasted with a conversazione. Yet, a Senior 
was heard to say as a valid objection, “ Oh ! you know, 
the felloAvs would want to smoke on such an occassion.” 
Again, let us see Avell to the moral worth of the two 
gatherings. I do not think any one Avants to say that 
the excessive indulgence, usual at dinners, in mere 
pleasures of sense is ennobling in the least. But I do 
say that a conversazione Avould, if anything, tend 
toAvard that general refinement, Avhich is the true aim 
01 a college education. 

Yours very truly, 

Alfred P. Murray. 



BEIGHT AND GEANT ALLEN ON CLASSICS. 
To the Editors University Gazette : 

Dear Sirs : The Pall Mall Gazette has recently 
been obtaining the vieAvs of eminent men on the im- 
portance of studying Greek and Latin. These opinions 
are, naturally, Avidely divergent, but I have been much 
struck by the fairness and clearness with which the 
Mse apinst the dead languages has been put by John 
crignt, the great apostle of common sense, and one of 
the leAv perfect masters of the English language. I 
append an extract._“ Your letter,” he says,“ has Caused 
me some surpiise and has afforded me some amusement. 

ou pay me a great compliment in asking my opinion 
on e question you put to me, which is one with 



1887.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



85 



which I do not feel myself competent to deal. As 
you know, I have not had the advantage of what is 
termed a classical education. My limited school time 
scarcely allowed me to think of Greek, and I should 
now make but slow steps in Latin, even with the help 
of a dictionary. From this it will be clear that my 
knowledge of, or any success I may have attained in, 
my own language owes nothing to instruction derived 
from the great authors of antiquity. I have read some 
of their works in English translations ; only recently 
I have read Mr. Jowett’s translation of the Dialogues 
of Plato, and have been more astonished at the 
wonderful capacity and industry of the Master of 
Balliol than at the wisdom of the great Philosopher of 
Greece. 

“ I suppose the youth of ancient Greece read the 
best authors of their own country, and the Roman 
youth the best authors of Rome. To have read Greek 
among the Romans would not have done so much to 
create and continue a classic Latin as to read and study 
the best books of Roman writers. So now, and with 
us, what can Greece and Rome do for English students 
more than can_be done for them by the best writers of 
their own tongue ? Is there anything in the writings 
of the ancients that can compare in value for the youth 
of England with our translation of the Bible, especially 
of many of the Psalms and some of the Prophets, or 
with the unsurpassable grandeur and beauty of Milton 1 
If all existing Greek and Latin books were destroyed, 
is there not in our English classics sufficient material 
whereon to build a future of which our future need 
not be ashamed ! U he learned men who were recently 
employed to revise the translation of the New Testa- 
ment were, I presume, especially learned in the tongue 
of ancient Greece. No one has complained of their 
ignorance of Greek, but many have been suprised at 
and have complained of their failure in regard to 
English. They may have been profound in their 
knowledge of the ancient classics, but in English equal 
to the translation they were engaged to revise, they 
seem to me to have shown more of feebleness than of 
strength. 

“ You ask me if I believe that the classics of the 
modern world are an equivalent, from an educational 
point of view, for the Greek and Roman classics ? I 
answer that, as probably all the facts of history, or of 
biography, or of science, and all the reasoning to be 
found in ancient books, are to be found in modern 
translations, it follows that the study of the ancient 
languages is not now essential to education so far as 
the acquisition of knowledge is concerned ; and that as 
the study of the best writers of English must be more 
effective in creating and sustaining what we may term 
classic English than the study of any foreign or dead 
language can be, it seems to follow that the classics 
of the modern world are, from an educational point 
of view, an equivalent for the Greek and Roman 
classics. The knowledge of the ancient languages is 
mainly a luxury. It is useful from the fact that 
science has enlisted it in its service, and it is pleasant 
to possess, and because it is pleasant it is a possession 
of value, with those who wander among ancient books 
and whose association is chiefly with the limited class 
who are enabled by leisure and temperament to give 



themselves up to studies which are not open to the 
multitude.” 

Yours faithfully, 

W. H. Turner. 

To the Editors University Gazette : — 

Dear Sirs : — Last week I sent you the opinion of 
the greatest master of English oratory on the study of 
Greek and Latin. This week I enclose the dictum of 
Grant Allen, the most fascinating of English prose 
writers. The following is the opinion in question. — 
“ It appears to me that nothing could be more pre- 
judicial to the interests of culture in England than the 
establishment of a real school of English Literature at 
the Universities. If you wish to kill a study, make it 
the subject of academical teaching. At the present 
day, most educated Englishmen know and love the 
literature of their own country. Many of them also 
know and love the literatures of Germany, France, and 
modern Italy. But by far the larger part of them 
cordially hate and dislike the literature of ancient 
Greece and Rome ; and the reason is clear ; because it 
was made to them in childhood and youth a symbol of 
drudgery and an instrument of torture in the horrid 
form of licensed vivisection known as public examina- 
tions. If I may venture to obtrude, by way of illustra- 
tion, a personal experience, I would say briefly that I 
was a classical man at Oxford myself ; took my classical 
scholarship and honours in due course ; and imbibed 
enough Greek and Latin verse by the way to be made 
composition master for some years to the sixth form at 
two or three big public schools. But from the day 
when fate first happily released me from that intoler- 
able servitude to a false system of so-called education 
to the present moment, I have never dreamt of glanc- 
ing at Plato or .iEschylus, at Tacitus or Virgil, except 
for a purely historical or scientific purpose. The bare 
idea of taking them down and reading them for amuse- 
ment or culture, as we read Shakspeare and Victor 
Hugo and Goethe, or as we read true poetry of the 
present day, like Andrew Lang’s or Gosse’s or Austin 
Dobson’s (you see, I have the courage of my opinions) 
would scarcely even so much as occur to the mind of 
the average classically educated Englishman. He re- 
gards all these things as mere ‘ scholarship ; ’ some- 
thing that he got over, like chickenpox and measles, 
once for all, early in life, and need never again trouble 
his head with. If a school of English Literature 
were established at Oxford the men who “ took it up 
for Finals” would come to look upon Keats’s “ Night- 
ingale ” as a straight tip for examination ; they would 
discuss the text of Shelley’s “ Skylark ” from the point 
of view of Mr. Forman’s conjectural emendations ; they 
would canvass with great deliberation the nice question 
why Richard Feveril did not return to Lucy ; and they 
would appraise the place of the “ Earthly Paradise ” 
by a comparison of the critical opinions held by Mr. 
Stopford Brooke and by the author of the selected 
literature crambook. Dr. Craik and Professor Henry 
Morley would gain thousands ; and English education 
would lose the one vivifying element it still possesses 
outside science — the personal study, for pure love, of 
our great poets, romance writers, essayists and thinkers. 



86 



UNIVEESITY GAZETTE. 



[1886. 



May we never live to see examination papers set in 
the High on Wordsworth’s Ode on the Intimations of 
Immortality, or frightened undergraduates heckled in 
viva voce over the precise signification of the fourth 
line in the eighth stanza of the Grammarian’s Funeral.” 

Yours faithfully, 

W. H. Turner 



R. GARDNER ^ SON, 



— MANUFACTURERS OF — 



THE HOEEHnsr 

Turkish or Roman Bath, 

140 ST. MONIQUE STREET. 

Foot of McGill College Avenue, MONTREAL. 





11 




Established, 1869. Eebuilt and Enlarged, 1873. 
Eenovated and Improved, 1884. 



BATHING HOURS: 

GENTLEMEN, - - - 6 to 8 a.m. 2 to 9 p.m. 

LADIES, 10 to 12 noon, Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. 

Apart from one of the most complete and best constructed 
Turkish Baths on this Continent, the Institute affords every 
facility for the administration of all forms of “Hydro-Thera- 
peutic ” treatment as well as for the practice of the “ Swedish 
Movement Cure,” and of Massage. 

Accommodation is provided for a limited number of resident 
patients. Special attention being devoted to the treatment of 
chronic cases. Convalescents, as well as others who are interest- 
ed in health matters, will find at this Institution a quiet and 
comfortable home, and many advantages not obtainable else- 
where in the Dominion. 

D, B. A, MACBEAH, M.D.. Proprietor, 



, ..uxix, 

BAKERS’ and CONFECTIONERS’ MACHINERY, 

Reel Ovens. Turning Lathes, Shafting. 

HANGERS and PULLEYS, 

A SPECIALTY. 

^ NOVELTY IRON WORKS 

40 to 54 Nazareth. Brennan, and Dalhousie Streets. 



CONFECTIONERS, 

Cor. St. Catherine and Victoria Sts. 

Fine Oandies and. Confectionery. 



Kstahlished 1859 . 

144 St. Lawrence Main Street, 

MONTREAL. 

of Physicians’ Prescriptions a Specialty. 

I^'^^Pensanes and Ciieiuical Lecfnrer< sup- 
plied with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale^icc"^ 



CRICIFORD L ROBERTSON, 

ENGIIIEEOS UNO MILimGUTS 

25 Bleurjr Street, MONTREAL. 



— MANUFACTURERS OP^ 



Shafting, Hangers, Pulleys, Dies, Models and General 
Machinery. Also, Punching Presses, Bookbinders’ 
Tools, Warehouse Hoists, Etc., 

YA.CI1T® and ENCilNEl^. 

ROBERTSON’S PATENT UNITRIPLE ENGINE, 

SAVES ONE-FOVRTH OF FUEL.. 



STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Good Quality and Low Prices. 

A full supply of the Celebrated CROSS smo PEKS kept in Stock* 

E-rrerjr peaa. g-u.a,ra.aa.teed.. 

" j_'03Sr <Ss S03>TS, 
QfSQ St. fJam©s Stroet. 



S. J. BRISSETTE 



THE HENDERSON LUMBER CO. 

Capital Paid-up - . $100,000.00 

Directors; D. H. Henderson. Norman He.vderson 

Chas. H. Walters. 

Saw Mills : ROXTON FALLS, P.Q., and 342 to 380 WILLIAM ST 
Branch Yard: 130 ST. CONSTANT ST., MONTREAL. 

manufacturers and General Dealers In every Des- 
cription of Lumber and Timber. ^ 



JOS COURTOIS. 

BRISSETTE & COURTOIS, 

aai Magfelnlsts, 

— manufacturers of — 

MiciiNERiFOR Piper Mikers, Piper Box Minueictirers, 

<^BOOK BINDEES and PEI1TTEIIS.4> 

special attention given to Repairing and Setting-up Machinery. 

SPECIAL TOOLS and MACHINES for MANUFACTURERS 

and. Unlit to Ordex*. 



UNIVEESITY GAZETTE. 



Corner 

McGill 

and 

Notre Dame 

Streets. 



MONTREAL, 







r 



CLOTHIER 



Corner 

McGill 

and 

Notre Dame 

Streets. 



-Mt s®r 'saa ©I'S'g' 

for 

Overcoats, Suits, and Gents’ Underwear, 



l^argest ^tocl« \n Canada to detect from. 



Suits j^Oyerco ATS Made to Order, American Styles. 

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 



BTJT '2'OTJE, 

Boots and Shoes, 

RUBBERS, OVERSHOES S MOCCASINS 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

Slioe Stores. 

UP TOWN : QUEEN'S HALL BLOCK. 

1331 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St. , cor. of Craig St. 

©oufcctiottcr^, 
Bonbons, and B hocolates 
“ TO'SrCES ” 

PHILIPS SQUARE, ’ MONTRICAL.. 

STAINING FLUIDS “f lointiDE Lipids 

—FOR— 

Histological and Microscope Work, 

PREPARED BY 

W. H. CHAPMAN, Ph. C., Central Drug Store, 
Corner Craigr and Bleury Streets. 




ARTISTICALLY 

I 

•'5-Engraved and Printed, •5!- 

— IN — 

RELIEF, CAMEO or PLAIN. 

The Burlanj) Litho. Co., 

5, 7 9 Bleury treet, 

2SiXO£iT£lE:iki;.. 



UNiVEKSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, Guerin & Greenshields, 

Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, &c.. 

Chambers : Exchange Bank Building, 

1728 NOTRE DAME STREET, • MONTREAL 
J. N. Greenshields. Edmond Guerin. R. A. Ei Greenshields. 

IjOBERTSON, FLEET k FALCONER, 

157 ST. STI?.EET 

Atwater & Mackie, 

Aivocates, Barristers, Comissioiiers, &c., 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 St. James St., Montreal. 



Macmasteb, Hutchinson, Weir & McLennan, 
barristers, solicitors, &c., 

175 St. James St., Montreal, 



DONALD MACMASTER, Q. C. 
M. HUTCHINSON, B.C.L. 



R. S. WEIR, B.C.L. 

F. s. McLennan, b.c.l. 



Chuech, Chapleau, Hall & Nicolls, 

Barristers, Commissioners, &c., 

147 ST. JAMES ST., MONTREAL. 



Hon. L. RUGGLES CHURCH, Q.C. 
Hoii. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. 



JOHN S. HALL. Jr. 
ARMINE D. NICOLLS. 



A. PERIARD, 

Law Booksellei, Publisher, Importer k Legal Staliooer, 

23 ST- ST., 

(near the court house,) 

O TST T E JL Xj. 



BI CYCLES ! ! 

Liawii Tennis Sets, Foot 
Balls, Boxing Gloves, 
Fencing Foils, 
Masks, d:e. 

Also, Prizes of all Descriptions. 

Wedding, Christmas and Birthday Presents, Fancy 
Goods, Electro Plate, <fec. 





X* IjXZE 

Hair Dressing Palace. 

— THE LARGEST ASSORTMENT OF — 

©Pu^Lie^, 011*05^, 

Pei‘fun:|ei‘y, ki)(i Toilet 

1743 & 1745 NOTEE DAME ST. 




THE 

GEORGE BISHOP 
'^ngi^aving ]*^i|inting 
Company. 

160 & 167 ST. JAMES ST , MONTREAL. 



Inuitations, Gards, Grests, pFogFammes, 
Monograms, &c., kz. 

IN THE LATEST STYLES. 



53 ST. SULPICE STREET 



Hairiressins ai Mm ii tk Latest Stjle, 

QUEEN’S BLOCK. ’ 



R. SHARPLEY & SONS, 

<5bwbllbi^y ^ Fancy Goods. 

every description of 

fine gold and silver jewellery. 

We make a Specialty of — 

FINE CHRONOGRAPH (OR TIMING) WATCHES 

At a Low Figure. 

CLOCKS, BRONZES, and 

ANCy GOODS, iu, t able/or Wedding Gifts or Presentations. 

OUT-DOOR G.IITIES. 

All the requisites for Foot Ball Lawn TRN.Ms.and Crickkt. 

Mathematical Instruments, Drawing Papers, Colors, etc., etc., 
1678 & 1680 NOTRE DAME ST. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 

E. & C. GURNEY & C o7 ^ 

3S5 cSc 337" St. Street, Iv^oosttre^l, 

Wholesale Manufacturers 



STOVES, 

GRATES, 

RANGES, 

SCALES. 



GURNEY’S 




—AND— 

Cast BnaflF Eafliators. 




Hot Am Furnaces 

—FOR— 

Gocil OP ^^oodi 



All Goods Guaranteed. 

Circulars on Application. 

385 & 387 

St. Paul Street, 

MONTREAL. 



JOHN CRILLY & CO., 

Paper Manufacturers, ! jouEmL. 



— MANUFACTURERS OF — 



Blotting^ Papur, 

Toned Paper, 

Colored Paper, 

White Paper. 

Flour Sack Paper, 
Manilla Paper, 



Hangrlngr Paper, 

Brown Paper, 

Grey Paper, 

Straw Paper, 

Bulldlngr Paper, 

Carpet Felt, 



Roofin£T Felt. 



Specistl Sizes TXTeigrl^ts to Or5.er. 

TWINES OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS. 

Manafacturers and Printers of Paper Bags and Flour Sacks. 
Price Lists and Discounts on Application, 

Warehouse : 389 ST. PAUL STREET, 

MONTREAL. 



SHARPE’S EXPRESS CO. 



297 ST. JAMES ST., 
MONTREAL. 



Cartage Agents for South Eastern Railway. 

miglit and Parcels Calleil For and Delivered in any Part of me City. 

. Particular attention Paid to moving Furniture, Pianos, &c. 

T EAMS FURNISHED TO PaRTIES GOING TO THE CoUNTRY. Telephone HO. 738. 



SHAEPE & WALTERS, PROPEIETOES. 



Fresh Oroceries ! 



Our Fall Supplies of GROCERIES and PROVISIONS are to hand, 
and we invite inspection. 

Teas, Coffees, and Provisions 

ARE AMONG OUR SPECIALTIES. 



DAVID OEAWFOED, GENERAL Grooer, 



ITALIAN WAREHOUSE, 

l'T'3 

Telephone No. 1391. 



“ QUEEN'S BLOCK,” 

1316 and 1317 St. Catherine St. 
Telephone No. 1392. 



MW ENGLAND PAPE8 CO. S:;. 

Office and Warehouse: Nun's Building, 

21 aud 23 I>eOrei%oleN Street, Iflontreal. 

MANUFACTURERS OF 

NEWS, MANILLA, BROWN, GREY AND STRAW WRAPPINGS 

ALSO Hanging, Sheeting and Roofing Papers and Card Middles. 



Beuthner Bros., 

mporlar$ anit ||mmfatlurar$' 

821 CRAIG STREET, 821 

MONTREAL. 




WOKKS AT 
, COKNWALL, ONT 



C^nT-A.Xj, - $2S0,000. 



MANUFACTURES THE FOLLOWING GRADES OF PAPER : 

Engine Sized Superfine Papers, White and Tinted Book Papers, (Machine 
Finished and Super-calendered), Blue and Cream Laid & Wove Foolscaps, 
Posts, etc., etc., Account Book Papers, Envelope and Lithographic Papers. 
Coloured Cover Papers Superfinished. 

Apply at the mill for samples aud prices. Special sizes made to order. 



E. a-EK/Tn, 

IMPORTER OF 

CIO--A.ISS3IW- 

Briar and meerschaum Pipes, 



SULTANS, KHEDIYES AND BEYS EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES IN BOIES OF 25. 

Try- St-u-d-ean-ts 

Paces and other Cut Plugs from $i.oo upwards. 

1323 ST. CATHERINE STREET, Queen’s Block. 




UNlVEliSlTY GAZETTE. 



TXJli: GJEIVXJIIVJE 

COOI^’S 

BAKING POWDER 

Is the BEST VALUE in the market, is made from 
the PUREST INGREDIENTS, gives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to the user, and should be pre- 
ferred by all careful housekeepers. Retailed 
everywhere. 









MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 



W. A. DYER & CO., 
Fkanaalial i Diamiaa Ctaiili, 

W&16 Phillips Square, Cor. St. Catherine St, 

MONTREAL. 

Bandages, Roller, Muslin. 

Bandages, Cotton. 

Bandages, Absorbent. 

Bandage^ Antiseptic Gauze. 

Bandages. Plaster Paris. 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent. 

Cotton Wool, Borated. 

Cotton Wool Salicylated. 

Cotton Wool, Sublimated 
Drainage Tubes. Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent. 

Gauze, Borated. 

Gauze, Carbolized. 

Gauze, Eucalyptol. 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze, Napbthalin. 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill ; Inhalers, Celluloid 

Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached. 

Jute, Absorbent. 

Jute, Carbolized. 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint,' Plain and Borated ; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels ; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes ; 
Sponges, Antiseptic ; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain ; Sponges. 
Gamgee’s Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies*. 

C. l.SMF01B*S 

Cheap Book, Stationery, 

fAlOT mmW> 

MEDICAL BOOKS, 

Students’ Note Books, Dissecting Cases & Scalpels, 

rtBY WEISS &D S 03 ST], 

OSBikP CASK. 

Books procured to order from England & the United States 

816 AND 818 DORCHESTER ST„ 

HONTBEAL. 



W. & F. P. CURRIE & CO., 

lOO GKEV iSXJlV 

IMPORTIiRS OF 

SCOTCH GLAZED DRAIN PIPES, 

Chimney Tops, Roman Cement, 

Vent Linings, Canada Cement, 

Fiue Covers, Water Lime, 

Fire Bricks, Whiting, 

FireiCiay, Plaster Paris," 

Portlands Cement, Borax, 

CHi:iT.A. CXj.A.Tr, <Scc. 

Manufacturers of 

BESSEMEE STEEL SOFA, OHAIE & BED SPKIEGS. 

A LARGE STOCK ALWAYS ON HAND. 
TELEPHONE No. 580. 

Montreal Steam Laundry Co., 

(L l Ivl l Ti,E ID , 

21, 2HI&23 St Antoine Street MONTREAL 

H. jLOV£. Managing Director. 

Our Laundry having been Refitted with the Latest and Most Im- 
proved Machinery, we are now prepared to offer special inducements \o ' 

Families, Hotels. Steamships and Public Institutions, 

for the Washing and Finishing of Goods. Particular attention given to the 
Washing and Dressing of Goods for Shirt and Collar Manufacturers. 
Goods damaged by Water Cleaned and Re-finished to look equal to new. 
Lace and other Fine Work carefully Cleansed and Finished. No Chem- 
icals Used and Goods less roughly handled than by the ordinary hand 
work. Special Contracts made, and Tenders for work furnished on 
application. 

GOODS CALLED FOR AND DELIVERED FREE OF CHARGE. 

FUR SEASON 1886-7. 

— show room is now open, wherein will be found a LARGE and 
WELL ASSORTED STOCK of MANUFACTURED FURS, to which 
I invite special attention. 

Also a Large Assortment of the Latest Fall Shapes in 

SixjIk: IE 3 Ij^ts 



FROM 



LINCOLN, BENNETT & CO., WOODROW, CHRISTY, 

and other English'makers. 

“W. Is/L. 

H ATTER AND FuRRIER, 

T751 Notre Dame St» 



■»5{; PHOTOGRAPHY 

For CABINET PHOTOS., go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFOEE’S. 

For GROUPS, go to 

SUMMEEHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For COMPOSITION OF GROUPS, go to 

SUMMEEHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For all kinds of PHOTOGRAPHY, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD’S, 

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleury Street. 



