JVo. t. 



Vof. VIIJ. 

McGILL 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Saturday , November 1 5 th, 1 884 . 



CONTENTS : 

PAGB 

Editorials - 3-6 

Federation of the Empire - 6-11 

McGill News - 11-12 

Societies - - - - - - - 12-15 

Correspondence 15 

Personals 15 



' 

MONTREAL ; 

PRINTED BY THE BURLAND LITHOGRAPHIC COMPANY. 



1884. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



MACM ASTER & CO, 

Barristers, Solicitors, &g., 

102 St. James Street, 

MOHTRBAL. 

DONALO MACMASTER, Q 0. M. HUTCHINSON, B.C.L. 

R. S. WEIR, B.C.I. F. 8. MtLENNAN. 



RoDertson, Ritchie, Fleet & Falconer, 

ADVOCATES, 

ST. JAMES STREET, 



% w. 

^Svocate, ^arri&er (jommi^ioner, Jrc., 
131 ST. JAMES STREET, 

MONTREAL. 




HEADQUA TERS 



FOR 




232 ST. J" JAl^EBS ST. 

MEDMCAMj WORKS, BOOKS USE IS MJ\' A RT COURSE, 
SCIEJVCE TEXT BOOKS , 

THE VARIOUS THEOLOGICAL TEXT BOOKS. 

Foil assortment in stock & supplied at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books, Ac., Ac., 

— — BEST VALUE IN TOWN. — <>— 

Stylographic Pens , Pens and Students' 

Supplies a Specialty. 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 
232 St. Tames Street, 

ALSO 

Branch Store: 1423 St. Catherine St. 



GREENSMIELDS, McCORKILL & GUERIN, 

ADVOCATES, 

Jlarristers, jlllornfijs, jlalitilors, 4 yj. t 

Chambers : Exchange Bank Building, 

102 ST. FRANCOIS XAVIER ST., 

9CONTRBAL, 

J. N. Grkbnshields. J. C. McCorkill. Edmuhd Guerin. 

C. ASHFORD’S 

Cheap Book, Stationery, 

% 

AUD 

FANCY GOODS SHOP, 

MEDICAL BOOKS. 

Students’ Note Books. Dissecting Cases & Scalpels, 

(BY WEISS & SON,) 

CHEAP FOR CASH. 

Book# procured to order from England & the United States- 

678* AND 680 DORCHESTER ST., 

MONTREAL. 



A.. PERIARD, 

Law Bookseller, Publisher, Importer 

And Legal Stationer, 

23 ST. JAMES STREET, 

(Near the Court House,) 

MONTREAL. 




New Seale of Prices 



THIS YEAR 

-Ht-FOR STUDENTS, fc* 




UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Vol. VIII.] McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, NOVEMBER 15th, 1884. [No. 1. 




DIRECTORS. 

Jeffrey H. Burland, B. Ap. Sc., F.C.S., President . 
A. B. Osborne, Vice-President. 

G. C. Wright, B.A., Treasurer. 

H. McLennan, Secretary. 

J. W. McMeekin, I H. V. Thompson, 

G. J. A. Thompson, | T. W. Lesage. 



EDITORS. 



W. H. Turner, B.A., Editor-in-Chief. 



W. Dixon, B.A. 

H-A-E. Greenshields, B.A. 
S. Fortier. 



G. Palmer. 

C. II. Livingstone. 
T. Haythorne, B.A. 



The University Gazette will be published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which 
rule no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 



Editorials. 



During two years the Gazette has been existing 
upon the will of the undergraduates. For with them 
it rested, each session, whether the paper should be 
continued or abandoned. This year the conditions 
are changed. A joint stock company has been formed 
which, in return for the raising of a guarantee fund 
and assuming the business management, has been 
granted the privilege of naming some of the editors. 
Thus the permanency of the Gazette has been 
secured. It was hoped that, in addition, a 
greater interest than was formerly manifested, had 
been aroused in the welfare and conduct of the jour- 
nal, but in this the promoters of the company have 
been disappointed. So much apathy on the part of 
the students has been encountered that, to continue 
the paper even as a fortnightly, the stock fund will 
have to be encroached upon. This is not fair to the 
company. The undergraduates, assembled in several 
meetings, discussed the question* of a new manage- 
ment thoroughly,, and not only approved of the 
scheme of a stock company, but also appointed their 
quota of editors. Ill common decency, then, they 



are bound to support the paper. If they will do this, 
we in turn will do our endeavour to make the 
Gazette worth the money they subscribe for it. If 
sufficient means are placed at our disposal we will 
publish a weekly paper, which will give full and 
accurate reports of all meetings and events in which 
students, graduates, or professors may be interested. 
In any case, we will strive to make the Gazette a 
complete record of the University life. But most of 
the news which can be published in a fortnightly 
will have lost its freshness before the date of publi- 
cation. 

In our editorials we will continue much in the 
same way as in the past, boldly pointing out abuses 
and means of improvement, and exercising frankly 
our right of criticism. And though, in so doing, we 
will feel the loss of the pen, for two years so ably 
directed by the former editor-in-chief, yet the newly- 
elected members of the board will be able to infuse 
into our columns a vigour and freshness which will 
go far towards compensating the loss. 

With regard to the literary part of the Gazette, 
there is this to be said, that the editors will welcome 
contributions of any kind, not serious essays merely, 
but also light sketches or short stories, always pro- 
vided, however, that they come up to a sufficient 
standard of merit. We have no desire to raise that 
standard too near the unattainable, but we must be 
bound in this respect by the previous excellence of 
the Gazette. While, however, we must reject all 
unfinished or immature work, we would also have it 
understood that the pages of this paper are always 
open to correspondence on topics connected with this 
or other universities. We wish to encourage such 
correspondence by all the means in our power, for it 
is our belief that McGill sutlers greatly from lack of 
a healthy public opinion. Certainly our graduates, 
who ought to be a source of great strength to the 
college, betray an astonishing apathy as regards all 
things which concern its welfare. We therefore in- 
vite all, who wish, to avail themselves of the fair field 
we offer for discussion and criticism. 

And now our preliminary say is over. If our 
readers think we have protested too much, let them 
ascribe the fault to our eagerness to secure a paper 
for them which will really e worth the money they 
pay for it. Our ambition asks nothing beyond that. 



4 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1884. 



W ith this number we have to record the departure 
of Dr. Wm. Osier, so long professor of Physiology and 
Pathology in McGill, to fill the post of Professor of 
Clinical Medicine in the medical school of the Univer- 
sity of Pensylvania. We cannot appreciate the merits 
of a good Havannah until we have smoked it, we 
never feel the benefit of a sound and refreshing sleep 
until we awake, and we cannot estimate truly the value 
of a friend until we have lost him ; and it is not until 
we awake up and find him gone that we look about and 
find what a true friend Dr. Osier has been to our Col- 
lege. At first it is hard to realize that he is gone. 
While with us he was so thoroughly identified in every 
way with the College that we never even conceived 
that he might be separated from it. He seemed as 
much part and parcel of the Medical School as the 
solid stone building itself, and we instinctively shrank 
from thinking of a possible separation as one sound in 
his molars would from the thought of the dentists 
chair. But since he has gone from us let us give him 
the tribute he so well deserves, by calling to our minds 
a few of the many ways by which he was endeared to 
us. As a teacher he will be remembered by the way in 
which he so thoroughly identified himself with the sub- 
jects he taught that all its lessons became, as it were, 
magnetised by his own personality. Socially his suc- 
cess with the students was boundless. No McGill pro- 
fessor ever treated his class with more formality, aild 
yet each man could not look on him but as an intimate 
friend, and on the other hand, though his ready tact 
never allowed him to address any man in a stiff or con- 
strained manner, yet we could never imagine anyone 
attempting to assume an air of easy familiarity with 
him. His attention to minute points of etiquette and 
politeness were, we feel sure, fully appreciated by all 
his pupils, who felt that it rose entirely out of respect 
for them, and not from any feeling of coldness toward 
them. Scientifically he seemed to us a marvel. 
Apparently a specialist, his specialities comprised 
half a dozen different branches, each worthy the life- 
study of an ordinary man. If specialist he was, it 
must be in the broadest sense of the word, not from 
narrowing his limits of study but by the superiority of 
his intellect compassing the widely divergent lines 
usually with justice regarded as distinct specialties. 
An instance of this is his present position. Through ' 
experience gained from his work as clinical professor in 
the summer session, a minor position here, undertaken 
as a summer task, almost a pastime, it appears he has 
prepared himself to fill one of the most important and 
difficult posts in that department. — and that too follow- 
ing in the footsteps of so distinguished a man as 
Professor Pepper. It is evident, however, that all his 



previous training cannot fail to make him excell in the 
department he has now chosen. His great power of 
accurate observation, his profound study of philosophy, 
pathology and microscopy, and most ol all his rare 
faculty of tabulating facts and presenting them to. his 
class in a concise and lucid manner must tend to make 
him a preeminently successful teacher of clinical medi- 
cine. However much we might have wished to keep 
Dr. Osier as Professor of Physiology, no one can deny 
that the highest sphere of medical life is that of 
practical physician, and in accepting this opening in 
Philadelphia we feel assured that he is on the high 
road to being one of the leading physicians on this 
continent. And with this conviction strong upon us 
we wish Dr. Osier every success in his new walk of life 
and congratulate the Pennsylvania University on the 
prize they have won in him. 

The Graduating Class in Arts is to be congratulated 
on their excellent judgement in choosing as valedic- 
torian Mr. A. H. Colquhoun, a gentleman most highly 
esteemed by the Undergraduates of the faculty, and 
one who, we are comfident, will ably represent them 
on the day of Convocation. 

We are sorry to learn that the Undergraduates in 
the Presbyterian College have considered themselves 
so burdened with other work that they have deemed 
it inexpedient to continue the publication of their 
“Organ of Student’s Opinion,” The Journal . We 
hesitate to regard the suspension as permanent and 
hope before long to witness the revival of our esteemed 
contemporary. 

In view of the defeats sustained by the Toronto 
and ’Varsity Football teams at the hands of the M^on" 
treal, Britannia and McGill clubs, we cannot resist 
the temptation of quoting the following comment 
from the 'Varsity of Oct. 25 : “ The ’Varsity simply 
met in the Torontos a team who were their superiors 
at almost every point. They met the champion team 
of the Rugby Union, and what' is probably the best 
Rugby team on the continent. To suffer defeat at 
their hands was certainly no disgrace.” 

It was with a feeling of deep disappointment that 
we learned of the bestowal of the Lectureship in 
Classics upon an Englishman. Without knowing 
what Canadian applicants there were, it would be 
wrong to question the wisdom of the appointment; 
but there are such cogent reasons why an English- 
man should not have been chosen, that we look for- 
ward to his coming with considerable misgiving. 
There is always the latent feeling of hostility and 



1884.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



5 



suspicion, which every young Canadian experiences 
toward the Briton, and which is sure to crop out at 
some inopportune moment. And there is the diver- 
sity of disposition and habit which prevents the old 
countryman from understanding, even in the slight- 
est degree, the character of the youth of this country. 
It takes years of uphill, possibly unhappy and em- 
bittered struggling, before the English teacher or 
professor can establish himself in the estimation of 
his pupils. And the latter must suffer from this, and 
the institution, the scene of the struggle, must suffer 
too. On this account we regard the stranger’s advent 
with dread. If he be a man of open and genial dis- 
position, things will probably run smoothly enough ; 
but if, on the contrary, he be cold and self-contained, 
or in the slightest degree supercilious, the pride and 
prejudice of the students will rise in arms at once, 
and a feeling of defiance will be awakened which will 
not wear away for a long time, possibly not for many 
years. 

Before beginning a short notice of Sir William 
Dawson’s report on the Higher Education of Wo- 
men, presented to the Corporation of the University 
and printed by their order, we desire in behalf of 
our College paper to extend our heartiest welcome to 
the ladies who have taken the initiative in applying 
for admission to our College halls. We are glad, 
ladies, to see you in our midst, and assure you that 
we shall watch your success, not with jealous and 
spiteful eyes, but with appreciative and delighted 
attention. 

The report starts out by recalling the history of what 
has been done in relation to the higher education of 
women in connection with the University. In this 
history the two outstanding features are the McGill 
Normal School and the Ladies’ Educational Associa- 
tion, institutions that have done an immense amount 
of good. Mention is also made of the time when 
classes of ladies from the school of the late Miss Ly- 
nam regularly attended the Principal’s lectures in the 
old rooms at Burnside Hall ; and this is followed by 
an enumeration of the different gifts for the educa- 
tion of women, such as the Hannah Willard Lynam 
Memorial Fund, the endowment of the Trafalgar In- 
stitute by the late Donald Ross, and the bequest of the 
late Miss Scott. 

As to the education of women in Britain, the ra- 
port is exceedingly clear. Abundant details are al- 
ways collected, and from them are wrought out and 
laid down the leading ideas and principles which 
seem to govern all English universities with refer- 
ence to the relation of the sexes. Generally, there is 



very little departure from the curriculum of the col- 
leges for men, the ladies, for the most part, insisting 
on having the same subjects to study and the same 
examinations to pass as the men. The reports of 
Girton and Newnham colleges, Cambridge, show that 
the women distribute themselves over the honour sub- 
jects in much the same way as men, the older mathe- 
matical and classical studies being well patronized. 

With respect to the question of mixed education 
of the sexes there is still much discussion, some col- 
leges adopting the system of mixed, others of sepa- 
rate classes ; while a third plan is a compromise be- 
tween the other two, a number of the classes being 
common to the two sexes. From the facts stated in 
the report it would seem that co-education is not 
gaining ground, the number of women availing them- 
selves of it being rather on the decline than on the 
increase, and in one case the plan being altogether 
abandoned. To us, however, this state of things ap- 
pears strange. We are allowed, and the plan works 
all right, to attend church with the ladies ; and it is 
difficult to understand why we cannot with equal 
pleasure sit together and listen to the lectures of a 
professor, especially in the department of Arts. 
Speaking of Cheltenham, where separate classes are 
in vogue, the report says, “ The whole establishment 
is pervaded with an air of refinement and Christian 
influence quite different from that in ordinary col- 
leges for men.” The experiment of partly separate 
education has so far had favourable results. The 
arrangements are such that it is only in the senior 
years, and then only for special subjects, the two 
sexes meet for lectures. 

The question of examinations, degrees and certifi- 
cates is classified under three heads : (1) The insti- 
tutions that admit ladies to the degree of B.A. with- 
out any restrictions ; (2) Those that confer the de- 
gree of L. A. (Licentiate in Arts), and attach the same 
educational significance to it as to B.A. ; (3) Those 
that merely grant certificates of having passed the 
examinations. 



We publish in this number a letter from an indig- 
nant medical* who claims to give an exact history of 
the late unhappy differences between the students 
in his faculty. If the statements made in that letter 
are true, as from what we know of their author and 
from the evidence we have been able to gather, we 
have no doubt, the conduct/ of the medicals has been 
highly reprehensible. Actuated by an impulse of 
panic they have put a shameful slight upon a man for 
whom we, who remember him in the Arts Faculty, 
can have no feeling other than respect. And whether, 



6 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1884 . 



as X insinuates, that panic was caused by selfish men 
in the furtherance of their own selfish designs, or 
whether the instigators of that panic shared in it, as 
is most likely, it appears equally foolish. If the 
members of the alleged secret society, who are sup- 
posed to have brought about the first election, are the 
majority, they have a perfect right to nominate whom 
they please ; if they constitute a minority, they are 
powerless. But, it will be urged, they have influenced 
the minds of the freshmen. We do not know whether 
they attempted this or not ; but if they did, what 
means could they have used other than persuasion — 
surely not bribery 1 And besides, the gentleman, for 
whom this influence was alleged to have been set at 
work, has already enjoyed the highest offices in the 
students’ gift, and must therefore be considered 
worthy of this. As to the other charge, that the 
meeting at which the election took place was sprung 
upon the students, that is nonsense ; for was it not 
summoned by the president, without whose sanction 
no assembly could be called ? We have listened atten- 
tively to parties on both sides of this dispute, and 
now believe' that Mr. Elder was fairly elected, and 
as the means by which he was ousted were irregular, 
is still Chairman of the Dinner Committee. 

Before leaving this subject we would like to offer 
a few words about secret societies in colleges. These 
Greek letter, or masonic fraternities, now exist in all 
the universities of the United States, and in several 
of those of the Dominion. In the former country 
they have undoubtedly done serious harm ; in Canada 
they are yet too young and uninfluential to have 
accomplished much of anything. But their existence 
is a danger. We know nothing of the objects of 
these societies, and are willing to believe them 
good. But the secret meeting together of men leads 
to this temptation. They will naturally discuss 
politics, college or other ; and, owing to the bond 
between them, they will, in all likelihood, attempt to 
push each other into office. In other words, the 
secret society has all the elements of the political 
machine, and the members must be of a superhuman 
virtue, if they rise above the temptation to use their 
advantages. For this reason the editors of the 
Gazette must ever disapprove the establishment of 
secret societies among the students of McGill. During 
many years, the slightest attempt at' introducing the 
machinery of politics into elections to college offices 
has aroused a bitterness of feeling Which has produced 
much unhappy fruit, and we now appeal to the 
students by all the "arguments, which experience and 
common sense can furnish, to refrain from banding 
themselves into secret societies, whose very existence 



is sure to excite enmity. And we point to the late 
outbreak in the Medical faculty lor a confirmation ot 
our views. There the establishment ot an exclusive 
society, which is not even known to be secret, and oi 
whose supposed currupt practices there is no proof, 
has awakened a hostility and suspicion which will 
embitter the relations ot the students for a long time 
to come. We trust that the Greek letter chapters, 
which during their establishment in the great Ameri- 
can universities, cursed the students with a strife ot 
many years duration, will never gain a foothold in 
McGill. 



FEDERATION OF THE EMPIRE.* 



About seven or eight years ago, when I was a law 
student, a number of young men organized, in an old 
hall near the foot of Bleury street, an amateur Parlia- 
ment, in which I was a member of Her Majesty’s 
loyal Opposition. After defeating what it is hardly 
necessary to say was an effete and corrupt adminis- 
tration, our party took office, and as a Minister of 
the Crown I had the honour of introducing a resolu- 
tion in the following terms : 

Resolved, That an address be presented to Her 
Majesty in Council, declaring that, in the opinion of 
this House, a Royal Commission should be appointed, 
consisting of representatives from the United King- 
dom of Great Britain and Ireland and from each of 
the self-governing colonies, to consider and report 
upon the best means of securing a Federation of the 
Empire. 

It would be tedious to follow out all the fortunes 
of this humble address. Suffice it to say that Her 
Majesty never appointed a Royal Commission, and it 
has remained for us to do. the work over again. Later 
still, it was my privilege to read a paper before this 
Society on “ The Canadian Aspect of Imperial Federa- 
tion,” which gave rise to a debate extending over 
three Friday nights, and resulted in a fourfold divi- 
sion of the members, among supporters of Imperial 
Federation, of the preservation of the present condi- 
tion of things, of Independence, and of Annexation, 
the last receiving the support of one honourable 
member. In the discussions that took place on those 
occasions, the champions of the cause I shall attempt 
to lay before you this evening, laboured under a 
heavy disadvantage. We were told that the English 
people cared nothing about Federation, and cared but 
little for their colonies ; that no Englishman had ever 
broached a scheme that offered any inducement to the 
colonies to examine the question. Indeed it was 
asserted that our ideas were in antagonism to the pro- 
fessed principles of the leading public men in the 
mother country. We were told, moreover, that how- 
ever strong our position might be regarding the sen- 
timent of the people throughout the Empire, our ar- 
guments were less conclusive in dealing with the ma- 
terial interests of the people of Canada. Happily I 
am now in a position to bring the matter before you 

* President's Annual Address to University Literary Society. 



1884.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



7 



upon a more satisfactory footing than ever before, 
many of the most distinguished practical statesmen 
of England having fairly set the agitation afloat, and 
a member of the British Association having presented 
a scheme from an economic standpoint that appears 
to remove the most serious difficulties. I trust now 
that the agitation will never cease until some practi- 
cal shape shall be given to it. 

In the celebrated report of the Earl of Durham on 
the condition of British North America, in 1840, a 
passage occurs that seems to foreshadow something 
of this kind, while indicating that the problem had 
already impressed itself upon the mind of that great ! 
statesman. “ I am of opinion,” he wrote, “ that the 
full establishment of Responsible Government can 
only be permanently secured by giving to these 
colonies an increased importance in the politics of 
the Empire.” Great advances have been made since 
his day, but the words are still in a great measure 
true. I for one cannot say that I have any very great 
fault to . find with the present political con- 
stitution of our country. But the law of nature is 
the necessity of growth ; and it is easy to discern that 
some time in the future a further constitutional 
change must come. As, therefore, it is the part of a 
prudent man to prepare for the future stages of his 
life, so it is the duty of a nation to consider what 
development her institutions are susceptible of, in 
order that she may shape her course accordingly. 

In trying to map out this future there are, I think, 
two ideas that must have an important bearing upon 
it. One of these is our people’s pride in their con- 
nexion with the British Empire. This is a senti- 
ment so uniformly existing in the minds of our fel- 
low countrymen in whatever part of the globe they 
are to be found, that it is deserving of a large amount 
of consideration. I do not say that it must be the 
sole determining influence upon our destiny, but I do 
say that any scheme of national life that fails to take 
account of it is an incomplete scheme, and one that 
cannot be realized without destroying much that is 
noblest in our lives. To ignore such a sentiment is 
as futile as to construct a system of religion or philo- 
sophy without taking account of the soul. 

Co-existent with this, however, there is another 
sentiment, the germ of which is in every British 
breast. This is love of liberty, a desire for indepen- 
dence, an aspiration after all the attributes of na- 
tional manhood. In her internal affairs, Canada al- 
ready enjoys almost complete autonomy; she has ac- 
quired by precedent even the right to negotiate her 
own commercial treaties. But her national powers 
are not fully attained ; and there is no patriotic 
Canadian, at all events in the younger generation, 
who is not convinced that in one form or another this 
must come. 

Now there is only one way in which satisfaction 
can be given to these two aspirations. It is by a plan 
under which full national powers shall be acquired 
and the integrity of the Empire preserved, or, — to 
speak of it in business language, — by a national part- 
nership, in which the mother country and the other 
self-governing colonies will join. This is the convic- 
tion entertained by those whom I may name the 



British school, at whose head I think may be placed 
Sir A. T. Galt, and Principal Grant, of Kingston, 
And it is a significant fact that one like Sir A. T. Galt, 
who has always held strong views on the necessity of 
full national powers for Canada, should come to the con- 
clusion that these can be best obtained by a consoli- 
| dation of the Empire. Mr. Blake has also several 
j times spoken in favour of Imperial Federation. This 
j will be the historical successor of the political school 
of the departed statesmen, Joseph Howe, Robert Bald- 
win and George Brown. Mr. Baldwin wrote in 1849, 

“ I could look only upon those who are in favour of 
the continuance of the connexion with the mother 
country as political friends, those who are against it 

as political opponents It is not a question upon 

which compromise is possible.” Mr. Mackenzie and 
Mr. Mowat represent the same principle among the 
Liberals to-day, while the whole political life of Sir 
John Macdonald and of Sir Charles Tupper have been 
faithful to it throughout. In fact, every public man 
who has ever conquered and retained the confidence 
of the people of Canada has been imbued with the 
same idea. 

There is, however, another school antagonistic to 
this, whose chief exponent is Mr. Goldwin Smith, 
which may be called the American Continental School. 
The latter may be said to embrace also those who look 
for Independence in the sense of cutting ourselves 
adrift from the Empire, because, if such Indepen- 
dence be brought about, it will be with the view of 
establishing a nation more or less under the aegis of 
the Republic to our South, in furtherance of the 
American Continental idea, and in antagonism to 
what they name the European “system,” and to Great 
Britain as supposed to belong to that system. 

Now there is a great deal of nonsense talked about 
this Continental idea. It is sought to be impressed 
upon us that because we live on the continent of 
America, we must snap every chord that unites us in 
sympathy and intercourse with the rest of the world. 
In my humble opinion that is a narrow and false 
notion. I believe that civilization will be retarded, 
the universal brotherhood of man, the federation of 
the world, indefinitely postponed, if the people of this 
continent determine to isolate themselves from the 
great nations of Europe. The closer the intimacy 
between the two continents, the greater will be the 
enlightenment of our people, the quicker the dispel- 
ling of barbarous and unworthy ideas about the com- 
mon interests of humanity. What we want is not to 
shut ourselves out from intercourse and sympathy 
with the continent from which our ancestors came, 
but to maintain close and friendly relations with 
them, endeavouring, by association, to adopt the 
best ideas of European civilization. Notwithstand- 
ing the enormous rapidity of the development of 
wealth on this continent, Europe still leads the world 
in civilization, — in literature, art, science, phylosophy 
and religion. Mr. Mowat the Premier of Ontario, 
at the recent meeting in London, in furtherance of 
the idea of Imperial Federation, stated it as his 
opinion that the connection between the mother 
country and Canada, has been ofunmixed benefit to 
this country. In this I heartily concur. But I think 



8 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1884 . 



we should have close relations, not with England 
alone, but with all European nations, and especially 
with France. We cannot forget that a large and im- 
portant section of our people have for France the 
same affection and regard that we have for the United 
Kingdom ; and on this account as well as on many 
others, we should try to tighten, rather than to sever, 
the bonds that unite us to the old world. And in 
spite of the friction that occasionally arises between 
the two countries, England and France are to-day as 
thoy have been for the last century in the van of 
civilization. And having lived in Franck, and come 
in contact with her people, I state it as my firm con- 
vic ion, that the French-Canadians and all Canadians 
will be elevated, enlightened and ennobled by culti- 
vating the closest relations with la mkre patrie. 

The continental idea is therefore an illiberal one ; 
and it assumes a diversity that does not exist. England, 
so far as I can observe, has more affinity with this 
continent than with the European. Her language, 
her laws, her political institutions, are either repro- 
duced or closely copied throughout this continent. 
Even her land tenure which differs from ours, differs 
still more widely from that of every leading European 
nation. In short except in geographical situation, 
the United Kingdom is more closely allied to America 
than to Europe. England indeed is rather cosmopol- 
itan, her interests lie in every quarter of the globe, 
her chief European interest is simply to preserve 
unrestricted communication with her Asiatic and 
African colonies. For all practical purposes, water 
brings countries closer together than land. For in- 
telligence distance is totally annihilated. There are 
already eight cables in operation between this con- 
tinent and the European, and a number of others 
projected, while there are two in use between England 
and Australia. 

It is indeed my heartfelt desire that we continue 
to preserve the warmest and kindliest relations with 
the nation of the United States, but I think ladies 
will readily understand that it ought to be quite 
possible to live on the best of terms with the gentle- 
man next door, without being bound to marry him. 
In the same way, while we are the best of friends with 
brother Jonathan, we do not wish, for the sake of 
enjoying his friendship, to shut our doors against all 
our other friends, and particularly against our own 
father and mother and all our other brothers and 
sisters. 

There are some men of large hearts and wide 
sympathies, who desire to see the whole Anglo-Saxon 
race united in one great commonwealth. While I 
have every sympathy with this idea, and while I should 
be glad to admit the United States into the federation 
I ^hall propose, I cannot think that the proper way 
to set about achieving that end is by severing the ties 
that already exist between the members of the British 
Empire situated the wide world over. But there are 
also men who hope to prevent a perfectly practicable 
union by pretending to work for a wider one that is 
altogether visionary. 

Assuming then that it is desirable to maintain our 
connexion with other parts of the Empire, I shall 
now endeavour to indicate the kind of connexion 



that I think can be established, or to sketch the ma- 
chinery of a federation of the Empire. Tt is with 
some hesitation that 1 venture to submit a plan that 
is tolerably specific, and may be new in some ot its 
features. My only apology will be that it is not 
hastily considered, but has been thought out with as 
much care as I could give to the consideration ot so 
vast a subject. In speaking of this, Scotchman as I 
am, ( quoique avant tout je sois Canadien,) 1 shall use 
the word English to express what relates to the United 
Kingdom, reserving the word British for it's wider 
meaning as relating to the whole British Empire. 

It is the belief of every intelligent statesman in the 
United Kingdom that some change will have to be 
made in the government of the British Isles, by which 
Parliament may be relieved of some of its duties. 
Local Legislatures will be created, subordinate to the 
Central Parliament, but with somewhat extensive 
powers. Thus only can Home Rule be given to Ireland. 
The English Parliament will then be free to deal with 
matters relating to the joint interest of the three 
kingdoms, and of the colonies that are ilot self 
governing. For these purposes which constitute the 
bulk of its important business, the present parliament 
should be left as it is ; subject only to the restrictions 
I shall mention, which should apply also to the 
colonial legislatures. The Canadian Parliament, as 
well as the English, would be left with pretty much 
all the prerogatives it now enjoys. It would continue 
to legislate on its present subjects of legislation, but 
in matters relating to other parts of the Empire, and 
to foreign countries, its action would be subject to 
ratification by the Imperial Parliament, whose functions 
I am about to mention. The Canadian Parliament 
would therefore retain for Canada all the powers the 
English Parliament would retain for the United King- 
dom, and would deal with the common interests of 
the Canadian Provinces iu the same way as the English 
Parliament with the common interes s of the three 
kingdoms. It would recognise Imperial control only 
in the same measure a* the English. So with Australia. 
A federal union, we know, must soon be effected be- 
tween the Austral an colonies, and to this legislature [ 
should leave the same autonomy as will be enjoyed by 
Canada and by the United King lorn. British Africa 
and other colonies mighi be brought in, as circum- 
stance dictated. As f >r India, I s ould leave it at 
first under the direction of the United Kingdom, as 
at present. 

In addition to these there would be formed an 
Imperial British Parliament, with su preme authority 
regarding — First, Relations between the • different 
parts of the Empire, Secondly, The ratification of 
Treaties with foreign Powers, Thirdly, Diplomatic 
and Consular services, and Fourthlv,The maintenance 
and control of the Army and Navy. EVh member 
of the federa ion, England Canada, Australia, might 
negociate special treaties with foreign powers, such as 
for Canada those relating to the fisheries, or to the ex- 
tradition of criminals, but always subject to ratification 
by the supreme British Parliament. A- these 
Imperial functions and especially the maintenance 
of the Army and Navy, and of the diplomatic and 
consular services, would demand a revenue, the 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



9 



1884.] 



Imperal Parliament should have power to tax either 
all parts of the Empire uniformly, or by special 
assessment any particular part which wa< receiving 
p rticular bent lit from the operation of those services; 
uniformly let us sav, to keep the army and navy 
upon a peace footing, and by a special assessment, in 
case of a war that aifected some parts of the Empire 
and not others. 

The membership of this Parliament would consist, 
in the tirst pane, of the entire membership of the 
English House of Commons. And the reason is that 
the ancient House of Commons would not be alto- 
gether disposed to respect the authority or to 
acquiesce in the jurisdiction of a body less numerous 
than itself, but would be apt to treat a smaller house 
merely as one of its own Committees ; whereas if 
the whole house was or could be present at its de- 
liberations, they could not complain of its usurpa- 
tion of authority. The number of members in that 
House is now 65^; namely 463 for E» gland, 30 for 
Wales, 105 for Ire'aud, and 60 for Scotland. If on 
the passing of the 1 edistribution bill, taat number 
be altered, it will be a question of simple propoition 
to readjust the colonial membership. Secondly, in 
the ideal house, I think all ihe member* of the Par- 
liaments of the several branches of the federation 
should be ipso facto mmbers of the Imperial. But 
in the case of the colonies there would be two 
inconveniences in the way of sending their entire 
representation ; one, that their numbers would have 
to be rtduced so as to bear to the population ot their 
respective countries the same ratio as the English 
house does to thep jpulation of the United Kingdom ; 
in the case of Canada, from 211 to 81. The other 
objection is that it might b e difficult lor the entire 
body of legislators to attend every year in England. 
In the case of the Canadian and Aus ralian houses 
therefore, there should be selected the number of 
their members they would be entitled to i i propor- 
tion to their populations. ( ’ai ada’s proportion 
in such case would be 81, Australia’s 54, and the 
other self-governing colonies about 28, making 821 
members in all. These colonial members w >uld be 
chosen by their respective legislature^, and not 
directly by the people ; both in order to preserve 
unimpaired the power and dignity of the Colonial 
lloises, and because it is in the highest degree 
important that harmony should reign between the 
two legislatures. In order however to prevent the 
controlling party in the Colonial Parliament from 
electing, the Imperial members enti ely from its 
own ranks, a scheme of proportional representation, 
such as Mr. Blake has suggested for the protection 
of minorities in Parliamentary elections, should 
be adopted n the election by the colonial houses 
of those of their members who should repre- 
sent their country in the Imperial. The Colonial 
members would receive an indemnity ba^ed 
upon the time they were necessarily absent from 
their homes. For Canada, say $2,000 a year, or 
double what the members of the House of Commons 
now receive. If however it were found that the 
duties occupied so much of their time that they had 



practically to make it their profession, then 1 should 
say that salaries of $5,000 a y^ar, he amount now 
paid to members of the United S ates Congress, 
might with advantage be paid. 1 would further 
opine en passant thil spe;ial courses should be pro- 
vided in our uuiversities for men wh ) intended to 
present themselves as candidates for election to 
Parliament, in order to qualify them for the work 
«*f legislation. 

As to the upper chamber, it would consist of the 
House of Lords, modified however so as to reduce 
its English membership to its proper propor- 
tion, ana of a competent number of member * of the 
Sena.es of the several colonies. These might be 
apportioned not according to population, but in 
proportion t taxation it there were any difference 
between the two. 

This Parliament would meet once a year in West- 
minster. Its session would be entirely distin t from 
that of the Englk-h Parliament. The members from 
the colonies would be earned across the ocean at the 
government expense. They would have free, abso 
iutely tree, telegraphic facilities, dur- ng the se.-sion 
o( Parliament, lor all public and private business, 
and out of the session for public business. The 
Executive government would consist of a di» 
tinct cabinet, containing representatives from each 
member of the federation. In cas- of a dissolution 
of the Imperial House of Commons, the Eoglish and 
Colonial Parliaments would be also • issolved, in 
order that appeal mi^ht be made directly to the 
people. The separate legislatures m ght how- 
ever be dissolved when deemed necessary by their 
respective ministries, their members in the Imperial 
House retaining office until their successors were 
elected 

This j-cheme is a modification in several important 
particulars of one of those suggested by Mr. Jehu 
Matthews, of Toronto, in a work — the best I have 
ever seeu on the subject — published some years ago, 
entitled “ A Colonist on the Colonial Question.” 
One d stinction is that the Canadian and other 
Colonial Parliaments are here recognised in the 
same way as the present English Parliament, 
wherea* Mr. Matthews contemplated a curtailment 
of the powers of those, and as I understand it, the 
election of members of the Imperial House directly 
by the p ople of each country. 

It would appear at first sight that a house of over 
eight hundred members would be very lar^e. But 
with some drawbacks there are great advantages in 
a large number of representatives They certain ly 
express the general opin on ot the people of the 
country better than a small number. They can, so 
to speak, back one another up. And after all wfieu 
you do come to a large assembly, the practical in- 
convenience is no greater in a house of 800 or even 
1000, than in a house of 658. It would be seldom 
that all the member* would care to be present ; when 
they were it would be the simplest matter in the 
world to arrange so that all could hear the speeches 
and vote. Most of our city churches seat from 
1,000 to 1,200 persons; the Queen’s Hall seats 



10 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1884 . 



1129; our Aiademy of Music accommodates 1,200 
persons, and out* of th*- theatres in Paris seats 3,600. 
A hou e ut forty couid obstruct, a house of a 
thousand co .Id expedite, business, if so dDpo^ed. 
There were ^88 tull members, 985 asseciate and ther 
ummbeis, 1773 n all, at the British Association 
meeting in .Vioiureal, a out 800 of them from the 

th< r country. Th» principle I have suggested 
for the repietenta ion cf Canada in th« British Par- 
liament i already recognized in the constitution of 
the Gei ei al Assen b’y of the Presuyteiian Church in 
this Dominion ; one fourth of the ministers of each 
presbyterv are membeis of th* Assembly for the y^ar. 

Nor would the colonial members run great risk of 
being ov rborne by the compact vote of the 658 English 
membeis, because, apart from the spirit of fair play 
that eminently characterises our nation, the English 
members are not only divided among the three King- 
doms as above, but are split up into parties. The pre- 
sent house consistr of 332 liberals, 242 conservatives 
and 62 Home Rulers, so that even now the colonial 
membeis would easily hold the balance of power, and 
their proportion would go on increasing with the greater 
increase of the colonial population. 

The objection that such a Parliament would necessi- 
tate the absence from home of a large number of our 
leading men during a considerable portion of the year, 
seems to be fully met by the provision that they should 
have perfect telegraphic facilities. Under such circum- 
stances it would make little difference whether they 
were a hundred or 3000 or 10,000 miles from home. 
And the only loss of time would be that actually con- 
sumed in the sea voyage of ten days each way for 
Canadian members, which Sir John A. Macdonald 
seems to think about the best thing for a public man, 
after a season of hard work at the seaside, and 30 or 35 
days for Australians. And I am sure that a far greater 
number than 81 from Canada and 54 from Australia 
go to England every year on business. And surely 
the management of the affairs of a world wide empire 
is a business of sufficient magnitude to demand such a 
sacrifice. 

And outside of their parliamentary duties our mem- 
bers would be able to render the country most valuable 
services. They would be 81 of the very best immigra- 
tion agents, with a perfect knowledge of the resources 
of the country. My friend, Mr. Sidney Fisher, M.P. 
for Brome, in his remarks at the meetings of the 
British Association in Montreal, on many questions re- 
lating to the agricultural and other industries of this 
country, convinced me of how much valuable work 
could be done in this way. And in this respect one of 
the greatest advantages would arise from the member- 
ship of French Canadians from this province. London 
is but a day’s journey from Paris. By easy transit 
these members could cross the channel, mix with the 
French people, and there pick up and introduce among 
our people the best ideas of French civilization. And 
while the French here are tenacious of the preservation 
of their language, I know of no better way in which 
this can be done, and made useful to themselves and to 
their fellow citizens in this country, than by constant 
and repeated visits of our ablest public men to old 
France, where the purest French language and ideas 



prevail. A deputation from the Imperial Parliament 
consisting largely of French members would be able to 
negociate reciprocal trade advantages in a way that is 
altogether impossible now, for they would have the 
whole of the markets of the British Empire to oiler in 
exchange for the markets, ot I ranee. The presence oi 
these members in the British House would form a link 
that would bind in friendship and alliance the French 
and English nations, so that tear ot a collision would 
be reduced to a minimum. And we should be able 
again to sing with its original meaning, now somewhat 
obscured, the old Crimean war song, 

•* Mav France from England ne’er sever. 

Three cheers for the Red, White and Blue. 

And the absurd prejudice, that has prevented the con- 
struction of the Channel Tunnel, (which is shared in by 
Professor Goldwin Smith), would very quickly dis- 
appear if we had a French Canadian as Imperial 
Minister of Public Works. Again, whatever advan- 
tage we may pretend to have over our French fellow 
citizens in commercial life, it must be admitted that they 
rank high as jurists; and I believe that the presence of 
men like our present Chief Justice on the Judicial 
Committee of the Privy Council, the only International 
Tribunal in the world, would be a source of pride and 
satisfaction to our people. Indeed, the many advan- 
tages arising from such intercourse are very hard to 
estim ite, but they would all tend to raise our nation to 
the highest position among the nations of the world. 
And I think without vanity I may claim the right to 
an opinion on this subject of friendly intercourse, 
having for the last live years been associated with a 
F'rench Canadian partner to whom I cannot refer but 
in terms expressive of esteem and affection. 

We may turn now to the economic aspect of the 
problem. And the first question that naturally presents 
I itself is what would be the cost of such a scheme. I 
know that those who deprecate any consideration of the 
subject, raise a great hue and cry about the enormous 
cost of the army and navy, and take the pusillanimous 
ground that Canada is not going to pay for these when 
she can get them as a present for nothing. This is so 
| unworthy sentiment, from a nation seeking national 
powers, that it seems sufficient to state it broadly to 
make it contemptable in the eyes of honorable men. I 
may quote some words from" Mr. Gladstone, ferreted 
out by an opponent of my views from a report of the 
Colonial Committee in 1859. “ No community which 

is not primarily charged with the ordinary business of 
its own maintenance and defence, is really or can be a 
free community. The privileges of freedom and the 
burdens of freedom are absolutely associated together. 
To bear the burden is as necessary as to enjoy the 
privilege, in order to form that character which is the 
great security of freedom itself.” 

I assert then that Canada in claiming a share in the 
highest national powers is prepared on receiving them 
to assume national responsibilities. Let us see then 
what these expenses are, bearing in mind, however, 
that they must be incurred no matter what form our 
national independence may assume. And I am sure I 
shall be able to show you that these burdens are small 
in comparison with the benefits we should derive from 
the scheme I shall unfold to you in a moment. The 



1884.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



11 



British Army and Navy Estimates for 1883-4 were as 
follows : 



Army, XI 4 .641, 000 

Navy, 9.278, 00U 

Army and Navy Pensions 5.947 ,000 

Diplomacy *. 618,000 



£30,484, 000=$148, 353,000 

If apportioned in the same way as representation, 
according to population, Canada’s share would bo some- 
thing less than one-tenth, say about fourteen million 
dollars.*!* This would give an army of 137,000 men, 
and a navy 57,000 seamen and marines. Now 1 should 
like to know what sort of an army and navy Canada could 
maintain as an independent nation for $14,000,000. 
Would it be one to cope with the United States ? If we 
look at the United States we find that their correspond- 
ing expenditure for the same year was as follows : 

Army $48,911,000 

Navy 15.283.OJO 

Army and Navy Pensions 60.431,000 

Diplomacy 2,419,000 

$127,044,000 

if Canada were annexed to the United States her 
share of this would be say $12,000,000, and this would 
give an army of 27,000 men, and a navy of 11,000. In 
other words, the expense would be six-sevenths, and 
the strength would be less than one-fifth of that of 
the British army and navy, without counting 
the Indian troops, which, exclusive of native troops, 
bring the number up to 700,000 men, all of which 
would be available in case of need. 

The Imperial charge would then be $14,000,000. 
From this would be deducted < anada’s present military 
expenditure of $1,240,000 paid for volunteers, pensions 
and mounted police, for which she would receive 
credit. But the indemnity of members, subsidizing of 
steamships to carry them across the ocean, and of sub* 
marine telegraphs for free telegraphing, and other ex- 
penses, might make the -sum $14,000,000 in all. How 
could this be raised ? 

The scheme I have the good fortune to present for 
your consideration is one that perhaps no Canadian or 
Inember of any other colony would have ventured to 
broach. But it is one that has been elaborated by an 
Englishman in a high position in the statistical branch 
of the Customs Department of the United Kingdom. 
1 may therefore give it as embodying the ideas of some 
of those that take a practical view of the question from 
an English standpoint. It is conceived in a spirit 
eminently fair to the colonies and in a peculiar degree 
advantageous to Canada. The gentleman 1 refer to 
is Mr. Stephen Bourne, F.S.S., of Wallington, Surrey, 
wh developed it in a paper read before the British 
Association in Montreal, entitled “ The Interdepen- 
dence of the several portions of the British Empire. 
It was published at length in the Montreal Gazette of 
7th October, 1884. 

Mr. Bourne’s scheme was briefly this. That there 
should be complete commercial freedom throughout 
the British Empire. That to provide the colonies with 
that portion of their revenue that they now derive from 
duties on imports from the other parts of the Empire, 

t A friend of mine, a merchant of Montreal, has suggested that 
these expenses should rather be apportioned according to the amount 
of trade of the several countries. It this were the basis, Canada 
share would be exactly $6,0U0,00Q. 



I if no other system can be found, a moderate ad valorem 
! customs duty should be collected on certain classes of 
j imports, and an equivalent excise duty on the same 
; articles produced in the colony. That free trade or 
the same mimimum revenue impost should be offered 
to every nation of the globe. But if any other nation 
refused to accord us the freedom of its markets, a pro- 
hibitive duty should be imposed on its produce with 
power to the government by order in council to abolish 
such duty so soon as that natiou was ready to grant us 
admission to its markets on the same terms as its own 
subjects or citizens. This would be the most favored 
nation clause in commercial treaties. If for a time the 
colonies were unable to supply one another and the 
English market, or England to supply the colonies, it 
would, of course, be necessary provisionally to modify 
this system, so as to admit the produce of foreign pro- 
tective nations but only upon payment of a smaller or 
larger duty, always discriminating in favor of the in- 
habitants of the Empire. 

Let us examine this system in detail, taking it in its 
less rigorous and more practicable form of something 
less than total exclusion of foreign produce, though 1 
shall continue to use the word Prohibitive, merely to 
denote the duty to be imposed. And let us first take 
up the question of how to raise our revenue, namely 
the $14,000,000 required for Imperial purposes, the 
$10,000,000 now collected on imports from the United 
Kingdom, $1,000,000 on imports from the other 
colonies, and $12,000,000 on imports from foreign 
countries. The total amount of revenue to be raised 
would thus be in the neighbourhood of $37,000,000. 
The first way in which this might be done uider Mr. 
Bourne’s scheme, is by a revenue customs and excise 
duty on certain classes of merchandise. This should 
be imposed on as small a number of articles as possible, 
consistently with the raising of the revenue. It would 
be collected, first, on articles imported from the rest of 
the Empire, and from other nations with which free 
trade relations should have been established : Secondly, 
On the same articles produced in our own country : 
and thirdly, In addition to the prohibitive duty, on 
imports from nations that maintain protective duties 
against us. 

( To b *. continued . ) 



PflcSill News. 



The freshmen in medicine have refused to pay their 
footing. 

A. H. V. Colquhoun has been elected unanimously 
valedictorian for the Graduating Class in Arts. 

The Maritime Association will meet on Wednesday 
evening, Dec. 3rd. at 7.30 p.m., in the English Lecture 
room, Arts building. All persons interested are 
cordially invited. 

The total number of students entered in the freshman 
classes of cGill M University this Session is 195, di 
tributed among the different faculties as follows : Medi- 
cine 88 ; Arts, male, 57, female 25 ; Applied Science 
16 j Law 9. 



12 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



1884 .] 



Under the §50,000 endowment of the Hon. Donald 
A. Smith, ladies* classes have been commenced in the 
McGill University with most promising results. The 
arrangements so far made will be sufficient for the first 
and second years, and will thus enable students to 
compete in the Intermediate and Senior Associate in 
Arts Examinations. Beyond this nothing definite has 
been done, but the prospect that our University will 
take a leading place in the great enterprise of providing 
for the higher education of women is most assuring. 

New Books. 

The following books have been received in the 
libr ry from 1st of November to date, viz. : 

Aust.n. — Lectures on Juris prudence, 4th. Ed. : 2 Vols.; 
Architect* — Royal Institute of British. The Transactions for 
the session of 1883-84. ; Arnold. — Roman S\stem of Provin- 
cial administration; Alcock. — Art and Art Industr es in 
Japan ; Benthane & Hooker. — General Plantarum ; 3 Vols. j 
Barbee — First principles of Geology ; Brandes. — Lord 

Beaconsliild, a study ; Beau grand. — Le Vieux Montreal ; 
Bourinot — Parliamentary Procedure ana Practice ; Phillips. 
— Manual of Geology. Vol. i. ; United States. — Report of 
Commiss.oner of Education, 1882-83 ; Oakey. — Building a 
Home ; Gentry. — Life Histories of Birds of Pennsylvania. 2 
VoU. ; Williams. — Mineial Rtsouces of the United States ; 
Sayce. — Fresh Light from the Ancient Monuments ; 

The McGill University Song Book. 

An enterprise which has been in progress since last 
February, and one to which a great deal of time has 
been devoted by those especially interested in the 
success of the undertaking, is the publication of a new 
edition of college songs for the use of McGill students. 
The want of such a work as this has been much felt 
and much regretted by all lovers of college music and 
particularly by those who are anxious to see a glee 
club permanently established in the University, and 
for which a well ordered song book must ever be a 
rallying point. This want however will soon be re- 
moved as the Committee engaged on the book expect 
to be able to transfer the MSS. to the publishers before 
Christmas, and a few weeks later to furnish the com- 
pleted work to the subscribers. 

The songs and music have been selected and com- 
piled by gentlemen who have spared no pains to make 
the book a success in every way and a credit to the 
institution whose name it bears. Many original songs 
have been contributed, among which is one by Canada’s 
distinguished poet laureate, Dr. Frechette. The book 
will contain about 150 songs and choruses with four 
part music, and will bo printed and bound artistically 
and serviceably by one of the most celebrated music 
publishers in America. 

Contributions in the way of original songs with or 
without music, intended for the new college song book 
should be sent in at once to W. C. Stewart, (McGill 
College), who will present them to the compilation 
Committee for approval. 

All subscriptions for the song book should be handed 
in immediately to the representatives of the different 
faculties or to C. W. Matthewson, treasurer. 

Geological Excursion. 

At nine o’clock on Satuiday morning the 8th inst , 
about a dozen of the Geological Class met Principal 



Sir William Dawson at the B naventure Depot, 
en route for the scene of our day’s Jabour. St. Anne’s. 
In thiee quarters of an hour we arrived at the 
end of our railway journey and surprised the mesk 
inhabitants wiih our dazzling array of hammers and 
our immense lunch (1) bags. 

We walked along the road a little way, and came 
to the quarries, winch present a very fair exposure 
of the calciferous lime:>tone. It certainly was rather 
cold, so near the river as we were, but by dint of 
hard hamm riDg we kept ourselves moderately warm 
and found several good specimens of fossils, mainly 
Muchisonia and Orthosceras After “doing” the 
| quairys we crossed to the south side of the railroad, 
and entered the outskirts of the village of St. Anne’s 
Heie we came across a very different sort of rock, a 
hard, firm Potsdam sandstone, in some p'aces almost 
a Quirt zite. One of our party found a vtry curious 
branching vaiiety of Scolithus. We then returned 
to the Depot and left our now heavy collecting bags, 

. and visited a field just across the track, where we 
found some scattered specimens of chazy limestone, 
and then we returned to the Depot to discuss our 
lunches. It was with sharpened appetites that we 
attacked bread and butter and sandwiches. With his 
accustomed thoughtfulness our kind Principal obtained 
for us a bountiful supply of milk which was very ac- 
ceptable. 

Presently a freight train was seen approaching, and 
when it stopped we boarded the “ caboose,” and rode 
to Pointe Claire. Here we found the quarries, like a 
great gash, cut into a ridge of Black river limestone ; 
and we work away with a will, finding trilobites, 
corals, etc.., and by five o’clock were all glad to return 
to the station. Here we talked about our fossils until 
5.30, when we again took train and returned to the 
City, having thoroughly enjoyed our outing. 



Societies. 



OUR COLLEGE Y.M.C.A 

Hie College Y.M.C.A , in connection with McGill 
was organized as a separate Association last spring, 
though a weekly meeting of students has been held all 
winter in connection with the Montreal Y.MC.A. 
The attendance at this meeting was only 15 or 20 and 
the prospects were not encouraging ; but this session 
the attendance at the Sunday afternoon meeting aver- 
ag s at !ea<t 40, and the interest in this work has wid- 
ened and deepened so much as to greatly encourage 
those that are anxious to sue it a success. This Asso- 
ciation is one of the 181 College Associations of 
America — 4 of these in ( anada — ^ hose aim is to pro- 
mote ClnHtian life among college students. Our 
principal meeting is the Sunday meeting at 4.30, which 
is held in a room kindly furnished us by the Montreal 
Y.M.C.A., in their building on Victoria Squaie. This 
is a social-religious meeting, conducted by a different 
student every Sunday. The subjects and leaders for 
the remaining days of the month sre as follows : 



ine position oi Unbelievers.” Num. 21,5 to 
30— “Reaping and Sowing.” Gal. 6, 7. 



H. E. Kendall. 
T. J. Norman. 



1884.] McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



13 



The Foot-Ball Season at McGill. 

Ihe outlook for the College Club at the beginning 
of the session was anything but bright. About one- 
half of last year’s team had graduated, and among them 
Mr E. H. Hamilton, who had for three years been the 
popular and energetic captain of the team, and un- 
doubtedly the best player in it. Further, the Club 
was forced, by the arrangements of the* lately-formed 
Quebec Rugby Union, to play its first match within ten 
days after practice began. But the committee and 
newly-elected captain went undauntedly to work, 
hunted out some new men, and drummed them and the 
old players up to morning practice. At the last mo- 
ment the match committee were thrown into a perfect 
frenzy of delight by the announcement that the old 
captain was taking a post-graduate course, and therefore 
was again eligible for the team. In the draw for the 
cup competitions, McGill drew Bishop’s College, and 
were ordered to play them at Lennoxville on Saturday, 
Oct. 11th. The following players were chosen for the 
match : Back , Hamilton E. H. ; Hamilton W. J. 
Half-back , Brown ; Budden. Quarter-back , Johnson ; 
Elder (Capt.). Foricards , Robertson P. M. ; Smith ; 
Robertson F. D. ; Kerry, Campbell, Matthewson, Hol- 
den, May, Costigan. 

Matthewson unfortunately wakened up too early 
that Saturday morning, and consequently was taking a 
second nap about the time the train left, leaving the 
team a man short, and thus the match was played. 
After a most enjoyable ride, now winding among hills 
that were gorgeous in their autumn dews, now follow- 
ing the banks of some beautiful stream, Lennoxville 
was reached about half-past two, and all haste was 
made for the field of play. A most cordial reception 
was given the team by the Bishop’s men, and the match 
was a very pleasant one. The result was rather a sur- 
prise to the “ boys,” who came out winners by a score 
of 50 to 0. The quickness of the forwards, especially 
Holden amd the two Robertson’s ; the long and accu- 
rate kicking of the backs and half-backs, especially 
Brown and Hamilton,, and the cool play of Johnson at 
the quarter, were the main features of the match. We 
nearly omitted to mention the bevy of fair damsels who 
surrounded the field, and whose presence justified an 
occasional “muff” on the part of some of the more 
susceptible members of the team. After the match the 
visitors were handsomely entertained in the College 
buildings by the Bishop’s men, from whom they re- 
luctantly parted when it was time to return to Mon- 
treal. 

The next match was with the Montreals, in the final 
tie for the Quebec Cup, and was played here on Oct. 

1 8th. As was anticipated, the College team was beaten 
by the champions, the score standing 21 points to 0. 
Three changes had been made on the team, Wroughton, 
Patton, and Lesage replacing Costigan, Matthewson and 
Holden, the latter having sprained his knee in practice. 
The game was mainly a series of scrimmages, and 
rough at that, and the natural result was that the solid 
and quick Montreal forwards carried the day against 
their weaker and less practised opponents. Hamilton 
(W. J.) had his head badly cut in the match, and a re- 
serve man had to be put on, However, the match was 



not all lost, having brought to light such a valuable 
man as Wroughton, who last year captained the Guelph 
team. He will be a “stand-by” for next year. 

Further, the match also showed the men how much 
they needed practice, for the want of which the weather 
was somewhat to blame. After another week’s hard 
practice, the team met the Britannias in a friendly 
match, and showed a marked improvement in condition, 
though they were again beaten by a score of 16 to 0, 
which was perhaps partly due to some of the old players 
being off. The match was a good one, played in a 
very friendly spirit — for us. Time and again did 
Hamilton (W. J.) by his cool play save the college 
goals. “ Verily the youth hath an old head on his 
shoulders.” 

But the great match of the year was yet to come — 
the annual match with University College, Toronto. 
They had beaten McGill, in Toronto, for the first time, 
last year, and the “ boys ” were determined they should 
not do so again. Hard practice, with an occasional 
Faculty match, prepared the men for the long-looked 
for 8th Kov., and as they lined up opposite their 
genial opponents on that cold Saturday, one could see 
by the quiet, sub-acute grin on Elder’s countenance 
that he, at least, did not mistrust his men or anticipate 
defeat. A new “scrimmage” man, Naismith, very 
ably replaced Matthewson, whose nose had been put 
‘off the straight’ at a previous practice. The match 
was a splendid one — a sample of what foot-ball matches 
between gentlemanly teams ought to be : a little too 
much scrimmage, perhaps, but no disputing. The 
’Varsity forwards were far superior, but their backs 
were not at all up to the mark, at times nearly causing 
Cronyn to be fined for swearing on the field. McGill 
i soon took advantage of the weakness of their opponents’ 
backs, by passing the ball back and kicking it over the 
forwards. Some beautiful drop-kicking was done by 
Budden and the two Hamiltons, while the wing men, 
notably Smith, the two Robertsons, and Holden, were 
on the ball all the time. Elder and Johnson did some 
good passing at quarter back, and all the “touch- 
downs ” but one were converted into goals by Brown’s 
accurate kicking, the ball being placed by Johnson. 
The score stood 23 points to 0 in favor of McGill. 
The ’Varsity men were entertained at a grand union 
foot-ball dinner that night at the “ Hall,” and were 
afterwards escorted to the depot, leaving none but 
friends among their opponents, whose hearts they had 
won by }heir courteous and manly manner while here. 
This closed what we can justly regard as a successful 
season, for it leaves McGill at the head of the list of 
University Foot-Ball teams, taking comparative figures 
for those clubs she could not meet. As regards outside 
clubs, it has been demonstrated that no college club is 
in a position to compete with them, for while they 
keep their players for years, college clubs must change 
every three or four years. The good position of the 
club this year is no doubt largely due (1) to the system 
of morning practices, especially that with the Montreal 
Club, thus giving an opportunity for team play ; (2). 
j to the excellence of the new men, and the greater in- 
terest taken in the game by the students ; and (3) to 
the confidence of the forwards in their backs and half- 
i backs. 



14 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 18841 - 



Looking forward to next year, we certainly think the 
prospects are of the brightest, and with the re-election 
of as many as possible of this year’s energetic officers 
and a judicious selection of a captain, who will enforce 
the rules of practice laid down this year, we predict a 
prosperous season for 1885-6. The material is there, 
and just requires a little care to develop it. So mote 
it be. 

McGill University Athletic Association. 

The first annual Field meeting of this association 
came off on Thursday, 23rd Oct., and was success- 
ful in every way. The following is the list of events, ! 
winners and records made : Morning — 9.30 a. m. 

1. Kicking the Foot-ball, 1st F. D. Robertson, 160 ft; 
2nd T. J. Haythorne, 149 ft. 8 in. 2. Running High ' 
Jump, 1st J. A. Springle, 4 ft. 10 in. ; 2nd M. Watson, 

4 ft. 9 in. 3. Throwing the Hammer (16 lbs.), 1st C. 
W. Trenholme, 69 ft. 1 in. ; 2nd W. H. Klock, 62 ft. 

4. Running Long Jump, IstT. W. Lesage, 18 ft. 2 in. ; 
2nd. D. J. Scully, 17 ft. 7 in. 5. Putting the Shot 
(16 lbs.), 1st C. AY. Trenholme, 32 ft. ^ in. ; 2nd T. 
AY. Lesage, 30 ft. 11 in. 6. Throwing the Cricket 
Ball, 1st T. W. Lesage, 278 ft. 4 in. ; 2nd R. B. 
O’Sullivan, 275 ft. 7. Throwing the Heavy Weight, 
(56 lbs.), 1st E. W. Haentschell, 19 ft. 2^ in.; 2nd 

5. Fortier, 18 ft. 1 in. Afternoon — 2 p.m. 1. One 
Mile walk, 1st R. Arthur, time 8 min. 47£ sec. ; 2nd 
E. Swabey* 2. Half-Mile Race, 1st E. W. Haentschell, 
time 2 min. 46^ sec.; 2nd E. W. Bayne. 3. 100 

Yards, 1st T. W. Lesage, time lOf sec. ; 2nd 

Girdwood. 4. One Mile (open), 1st J. W. Mofi'at, M. 
A. A. A., time 4 min. 4 sec. ; 2nd S. S. Jones, S. L. C. 

4. 440 Yards Race, 1st Kennedy, time 59 sec. ; 

2nd E. AY. Bayne. 6. Three Legged Race, Wray and 
Corson, 1st 7. Mile Race, 1st E. W. Haentschel, 
time 5 min. 8 sec.; 2n$ H. M. Patton. 220 Yards 
Race, 1st T. W. Lesage, time 25f sec. ; 2nd R. B. 
O’Sullivan. Tug of War, won by team from Medicine. 
10. One Mile Bicycle, 1st Ii. E. Holden, time 3 min. 
58-£ sec. ; 2nd D. B. Holden. The Hurdle Race was 
withdrawn, the Committee being unable to procure 
hurdles. 

The prizes were presented immediately after the 
games in the William Molson Hall by Lady Dawson. 

The attendance of spectators this year w r as larger than 
for many years back and the varied and interesting 
programme was well carried out. 

Reading Room Committee. 

Some delay in the election o f ’ the several represen- 
tatives of this Committee caused the re-* » reran ization to 
be a little later than usual, and the first meeting con 
eequently was not held till October. The following 
members reported : Fiom Arts — 4th year, H. A. Bud- 
den, A. H. U. Colquhoun ; 3rd year, J. II. Bell, W. 
W. Chalmers ; 2nd year, R. B. Henderson ; 1st year, 

— Brayley. From Science — B. J. Saunders, E. P. 
Mathewson, R. E. Palmer, W. C. Perkins, H. Hamil- 
ton. The officers elected were: — President, Colqu- 
houn ; Vice-President, Budden ; Secretary, Bell ; 
Treasurer, Mathewson. Notwithstanding the com- 
paratively late opening of the session, the reading 
room was soon supplied with a very good list of 



papers and periodicals, and the management, in point 
of efficiency, is quite up to former years. The annual 
auction was held Nov, 15th, and the amount realized 
exceeded that of last year. The Committee is en- 
deavouring to see that no periodicals are removed, 
either wi' fully or through mistake, from the reading- 
room, and to obtain the co-operation of the students 
in keeping order and enforcing the rules in the in- 
terest of the readers. A handsome mounted picture, 
a “ View of London,” was presented to the reading- 
room by Mr. Taylor, the librarian. 

University Literary Society. 

The 22nd public meeting of this Society was held 
on the 18th inst. in the William Molson Hall Mr. 
McGoun, the president, delivered the annual address, 
taking for his subject a Imperial Federation.” As we 
print this address in another place, nothing further 
need be said about it here, other than that, at the be- 
ginning, the speaker thanked the society for the honor 
they had conferred upon him in electing him to the 
office he now holds. After the close of the address, 
Sir AVilliam Dawson, who with Dr. Cornish and Mr. 

A. G. Cross occupied a place upon the platform, thanked 
the lecturer, and in doing so, observed that the subject, 
of federation had been agitated for at least forty years, 
though, in his opinion, never with such prospects of 
success as now, when the facilities for rapid communi- 
cation had removed the only insuperable obstacle that, 
once stood in the way of a closer union than at present 
exists, of the different parts of the Empire. He also said 
it should be remembered that the' British empire wa s 
held together not so much by Britons themselves, for 
they formed a minority of its subjects, as by British 
principles, the three most potent of which are British 
freedom, British energy, and British administrative 
purity. In concluding he paid a graceful compliment to 
the society dnd its president, remarking that, though 
the latter had said McGill ought to have a faculty for 
the training of statesmen, the existence of the society 
rendered the establishment of such a faculty unneces- 
sary. On Friday, the 21 inst. the subject for debate at the 
ordinary meeting was : Is the admission of Jamaica into 4 
the confederation desirable? Messrs. R. C. Smith and 
R. A. E. Greenshields, supported the affirmative and 
Alessrs. J. F. Mackie and G. Q. AV right the negative. 
Though all the speakers were well prepared, or at anv 
rate spoke as it they were, it was noticeable that tha 
older members of the society could not refrain from 
insinuating an apology. Nothing appears more silly 
to the listeners than an excuse where none is needed, 
and we trust that the members have sense enough to 
abandon this practice into which they have carelessly 
slipped. AVhen the question was put, the meeting 
decided in favor of the negative. 

» 

Maritime Association. 

An addition to the many societies in connection with 
McGill University was made this year by the forma- 
tion of a Maritime Association,” which is intended 
to include all undergraduates from the Maritime Pro- 
vinces and Newfoundland entered in any of the classes 
of the college, and also as honorary members all 
students in the affiliated colleges, and all graduates 



1884.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



15 



originally from these districts, but now resident in 
Montreal. The Association meets on the evening of 
the first Wednesday in every month during the session 
in the English lecture room, the use of which has been 
granted by the Faculty of Arts. The officers, chosen 
with the view of having each Province represented, 
are as follows: President, S. A. Raymond, B.A., 

Springfield, N.B. ; 1st Vice-President, Colin H. Liv- 
ingstone. St. John, N.B. ; 2nd Vice-President, Charles 
Swabey, Charlottetown, P.E.I. ; Treasurer, G. J. A. 
Thompson, Harbor Grace, N’fl’d. ; Secretary, E. A. 
Kirkpatrick, Kentville, N. S. The members number 
upwards of fifty. The Association has in view many 
objects, prominent among which is, the promoting of 
a greater degree of sympathy and friendly intercourse 
among the students from the Eastern Provinces, who 
are naturally united to each other by reason of the 
distance of their respective homes. The Association 
will strive as far as possible to receive in a cordial 
manner all new students from the above-named Pro- 
vinces, and to guard them from the many unpleasant 
experiences that without its aid would fall to their lot. 
Owing to the extreme remissness on the part of the 
agents of the University in not advertising its advan 
tages, professional and other, in the jouraals tf the 
Maritime Provinc s, it devolves upcm each member of 
this Society to obviate far as he is able the effects 
of this neglect by endeavoring to increase the prestige 
of the institution and by soliciting for it a larger 
patronage than it has enjoyed in the past among 
intending students from the Eastern Provinces. A 
meeting extiaordinary of the Association was held on 
Wednesday evening, Nov. 19th. at which the constitu- 
tion drafted by a committee composed of the officers, 
was adopted. A committee, consisting of Messrs. E. 
A. Kirkpairick, Chas. Swabey, G. J. A. Thompson, 
Clay, and S. W. Boon, was appointed to draw up a 
set of bye-laws, which will be submitted for approval 
at the next meeting. 



Itorrespcn&ence. 



Editors McGill Gazette : — 

Dear Sirs, — I request that a brief space be allowed 
me to relate certain very curious and anomalous pro 
ceedings which have recently occurred amongst the 
Medicals, and to make a few comments on them On 
the 10th of Nov., at a general meeting duly called, 
Mr Elder was elected President of the Annual Medi- 
cal Dinrn r. Next morning, an anonymous, ill-spelled 
notice appeared on the board, calling a general meet- 
ing for Oct 11 th, at 5 p.m., at which freshmen and 
others were to bo informed of certain matters of which 
they were ignorant when they voted at the meeting 
of the previous evening. A very full meeting was 
held in the Anatomy Room, and everybody was 
curious to know what was going to be done. The 
chair was taken and a motion was made by the chair- 
man of the previous meeting, seconded by the de- 
feated candidate, that the lection be reconsidered, on 
the ground that foul means had been used to secure 
Mr. Elder’s election. No names were mentioned, 



though they were called for, and the principal means 
used were stated to be that the fr<*shmen had been 
canvassed in Mr. Elder’s interests, and that the din- 
ner question was sprung on the college. This was 
simply stated without any proof being adduced. Mr. 
Elder, in a brief and manly speech, thanked the 
students for electing him to such a d^tingu idled 
position the day before, denied any p rsonal canvass- 
ing and all knowledge of canvassing being done for 
him, and challenged any one to bring up a single in- 
stance of dishonourable conduct on his part through- 
out his whole course in Arts and Medicine I* is 
needless to say the challenge was not acc pted. He 
said that if the students had any fault to find with 
him they ought to elect a better man. He then left 
the room. Nominations were made, and the mov^r 
of the recon dderation was elected as President of the 
Dinner. 

It is by no means creditable to the Medicals 
that, at a meeting anonymously c tiled and by 
flagrant violation of all principles of straightforward 
and honourable conduct, such a motion should have 
been carried, and a man of the well-known character 
of Mr. Elder should have been ignominiously kicked 
out. It is utterly incomprehensible to me how 
any body of men, setting up the s ightest claim to 
ordinary intelligence, could have been so completely 
gulled and befooled by a few selfish, ambitious, and 
unscrupulous men. In conclusion, let me say that 
Mr. Elder has c M me out of the contest with untarnish- 
ed reputation, while the party who carried all before 
them on Nov. 11th have immortalized themselves for 
mean, cowardly and under-haild tricks. 



Personals. 



J. McDonald, B. Ap. Sc. ’84, is in an architect’s 
office in Omaha, Neb. 

Dave Ogilvy, B. Ap. Sc. ’85, is in the vicinity of 
Sudbury Junction, C. P. R. 

It appears that the Indians have not got the scalp of 
our “ Sapper,” as was reported. 

P. L. Foster, B. Ap. Sc. ’82, is in British Columbia 
on an engineering staff of the C. P. R. 

Dr. Ferguson, gold medallist in Arts, ’81 and in 
Medicine ’84, is now on the C.P.R. at Sudbury. 

J. P. Mclnerney, M.D.,. Valedictorian of ’84, has 
taken up his abode in the city of Portland, N. B., 
where he is working up a very large practice. 

Adams A. Mackay, B.A., ’84, has been engaged in 
educational work in his native place, River John, N.S., 
and recently passed in Halifax the examination for 
admission to the study of law, taking, as might have 
been expected, a high rank. 

J. R. Murray, B.A., ’83, who was the successful 
managing editor of this paper for two years, is now 
dispensing mathematics and logic to the bright youths 
of Morrin ‘ ollege. He continues his law studies, 
however, but, to do so, has had to transfer his alle- 
giance to Laval. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



-Me Central Drug: Stores 
W. H. CHAPMAN, 

Pharmaceutical Phemist, pNG., 

By Examination member of the Pharmaceutical Society 
of Great Britain. 

Licentiate of Quebec PHARMAcsyTicAL Association. 

THE DISPENSING OF PRESCRIPTIONS A SPECIALTY. 

Finest and Purest Drugs only used. 

COR. OR CRAIG &c BLEVRY STS. 



PHOTOGRAPHY. 

For Cabinet Photos, go to 

SUMMERHA YES & W ALFORD 'S. 

For Croups go to 

SUMMERHA YES & W ALFORD 'S. 

For Composition of Croups go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD'S. 

For all kinds of Photography go to 

SUMMERHAYES& W ALFORD’S. 
SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleary biree’. 





RJitHELJEH HiDIEL, 



Late of London, England, 

Fashionable Tailor 



31 BEAUER HALL. 



jC LARGE ASSORTMENT OFJtw 



]ijrij>li$lii j^cotch and french 



I. B. DUROCHER. Proprietor. 

Jacques Cartier Square, opp, Court House & City Hall, 

MONTREAL. 

THb ABOVE HOTEL 18 1 HE BEST IN THE CITY FOR McGILL COLLEGE DINNERS. 

RAADT & CO., 






Worsteds Constantly on Hand. 



-McRfllR DRESSERS,*-*- 

St. Jj^wrenoe Hall, 

And Queen’s Block, 1323. St Catherine St.. 

I^OITTBEAL. 

^l)e IJurlanJ J^itbographic (^o y. 

5 & 7 BLEURY STREET. 

GENERAL ENGRAVERS, 
LITHOGRAPHERS, 

PRINTERS AND PUBLISHERS, 
PHOTO-LITHOGRAPHERS 
AND ELECTROTYPERS. 



Fifteen per cent, discount 
For Spot Cash. 

Removable ^ollar$ anil (Juffs 

FOR OVERCOAT S , 

Made from the Primest Furs : 

Fit Better than sewed on 

AS HERETOFORE AND LOOK HANDSOME. 




