Vol. X 



No. 7. 




Printed by the Borland Lith. Co., Montreal. 



0 













UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



The Mutual Life Insurance Co. 

OF itew YORK 

ISSUES EVERY DESIRABLE FORM OF POLICY. 

_ , _ $109,000,000 

Assets nearly - . 13,000,000 

Surplus over 

The MUTUAL of New York is the largest LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY in the worldj with the best record. 

AGENTS WANTED IN UNREPRESENTED DISTRICTS. 

swells can improve Heir circumstances considerably by acting as Agents in their own Localities during Vacation. 
GAULT & BROWN, General Managers, 

1762 NOTBE STREET. - - 



WEDDING CARDS, 

VISITING CARDS, 

MENU CARDS, 
RECEPTION CARDS, 

INVITATION CARDS, 

MEMORIAM CARDS, 
AT HOMES, 

BALL PROGRAMMES, 

PROGRAMME COVERS. 

THE BURLAND LITH. CO., 

___ 5, 7 & 9 Bleary St., MONTREAL. 



SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS 
~and~ CHEMICAL APPARATUS. 

& tfull $todk dor)£tai)tly or) ftapd, Imported 
Dii^edt front) tl)e Leading .Mapufadtufe^ 
of tl)e Wofld. 

AN' INSPECTION' INVITED. 



X 



384 ST. 'PAUL STREET. 

HEADQUARTERS 

—FOR— 




DRYSDALE’S 

232 ST. JLA- HOLIES ST. 



Wm. Notman & Son, 



* * 




■Ji/evu Seals of Trices this year 
fer Students. 

17 BLEURY STREET. 



JHEniCAIj U'OHKS, BOOKS IS It It /„V JRT COURSE, 
SCIEJYCE TEXT BOOKS , 

THE T\I RIOUS IHEOI.OUICJIL BOOKS. 

Full assortment in stoct & supplied at Rock Bottom Prices 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books, &c., Ac., 

-* fflEST V.A.XjTTE IHILT TOWlsH-* 
Stylographic Pens , Anti-Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty. 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

232 St. Ta. 3 no.e 3 Street 

ALSO 

Branch Store 1423 St, Catherine St. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



vol. x.] McGill college, Montreal, February 2nd, 1887. [No. 7 . 



ettc. 



BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

Jeffrey H. Burland, B. Ap. Sc., F.C.S., President. 
Edward P. Williams, Med. ’87, Vice-President. 

J. F. Mackie, B.A., B.C.L., Sec.-Treas. 

Chs. W. Hoare, Med. '88. 

W. A. Cameron, Arts 87. 

A. Drummond, Science ’88. 

K. B. Henderson, Arts ’87. 

EDITORS. 



no right to exclude a man from an oral because of his 
failure in one subject. 

While upon this subject, we would suggest to the 
Law Faculty in McGill that the subject of Municipal 
Law be made a part of the course. It is without 
doubt an important part of our law, sufficiently obscure 
and confused to require some explanation, and is now 
obligatory at the Bar examination. Besides, all the 
students who come to McGill do not practice in cities, 
but some in country parts, where an intimate know- 
ledge of the Municipal Code is absolutely essential. 




Raleigh J. Elliot, B.C.L., Editor-in-Chief. 

J. Ralph Murray, B.A., B.C.L. 

Arthur Weir, B. Ap. Sc 
Alfred P. Murray, Arts *87 
W. A. Carlyle, Science ’87. 

Henry Fry, Law ’88. 

John H. Bell, B.A., Med. ’88. 

C. L. Wheeler, B.A., Med. ’89. 

The U.ntyersity Gazette will be published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which 
rule no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

All communications may be addressed to the Editors, P. 0. 

Box 1290. 



CON TENTS: 



Editorials 
Poetry - 
Contributions 
McGill News - 
Societies 
Personals 

Between the Lectures 
College World - 
Correspondence 



PAGE. 

87-89 



89 

89-97 

97 

98 

98 
98-99 

99 

99-100 



Editorials. 



THE BAR EXAMINATIONS. 



THE WORK OF DEATH. 

Within the past few weeks McGill University has 
lost two of her most devoted friends. The wise 
counsel of the Hon. Mr. Justice Torrance will be 
sorely missed on her Board of Governors, and the 
energetic and self-sacrificing work of Mr. Ramsay in 
behalf of his alma mater will, so long as McGill lasts, 
be often remembered by those who shall in future 
"uide her destinies. We mourn in common with 
every graduate of McGill that two such useful lives 
have been lost, even at the time they were battling 
for the interests which we, as English Protestants in 
Quebec, hold high above all others. Our sorrow will 
be best expressed by a manful and a persistent effort 
to find men equally disinterested and equally wise to 
carry on the work which these men in their lifetime 
held very dear. 

The time has come when the graduates of the Uni- 
versity should make an effort for larger representation 
on the Board of Governors, and we trust that imme- 
diate steps will be taken in this connection to ensure 
the appointment of men who will be as earnest in 
their devotion to the interests of the University as is 
the great body of her graduates. 



We had occasion sometime ago to refer adversely 
to the new regulations passed by the Bar of this Pro- 
vince to govern the examinations, both for admission 
to the study and practice of law. Since our last article 
was written the first of these examinations has been 
held under the new rules, and we see no reason to 
change our opinion as then expressed. The whole 
principle is a bad one, and until the Bar can make 
adequate provision for a more general and a more 
searching written examination, we maintain the) ha\ e 



THE PRELIMINARY BAR EXAMINATION. 

Anything more careless or more discouraging than 
the attitude of the English Bar of this Province as 
regards this examination, it would be difficult to 
imagine. Too careless to inquire into the merits of 
the case, they have allowed their French confreres to 
impose upon English students their system of educa- 
tion. No sooner is the charge made than we hear 
upon all sides the stock objection, “ oh, we are iu 



88 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1887 . 



minority; we can do nothing.” Such reply is a cow- 
ardly excuse to cover over selfish indifference. Ihe 
facts are these : we send up men from English schools 
to this examination, well prepared according to our 
system, to begin the study of the profession of law ; 
many of them are graduates in Arts from our Univer- 
sities — some of them medal men in this course — with 
what result? to have many of them fail, while even 
our best men take a low place in comparison with those 
trained in French Schools. Let any fair-minded man 
look over the results of these examinations, and he 
cannot but come to the conclusion that the present 
regulations are a gross imposition upon English can- 
didates. English schools attach much importance to 
the study of Mathematics, French schools attach a 
corresponding importance to the study of Mental and 
Moral Philosophy. The former is valued in this 
Examination at 100 points, the latter at 200 ! We deny 
that the Council of the Bar has any right to impose 
the French system thus upon us ; we deny that a 
course in philosophy is any better preparation for the 
study of law than is one in mathematics : we admit 
that both are useful, and we simply ask that the opinions 
of the English educators throughout the Province 
should be respected. 

To return, we believe that if the English members 
of the Bar would display a little more energy and 
determination, things would not be in the condition 
in which they now are. We do not believe that the 
French members have deliberately set to work to put 
our young men in a disadvantageous position ; they 
have simply followed out their convictions, and there 
was no one of opposite convictions public-spirited 
enough to make objection or to urge a different course. 
We prefer one and the same examination for both 
Fiench and English candidates for admission to study 
law, but if our French friends cannot be induced to 
modify the present regulations, then we demand as a 
right, not ask as a favour, that there shall be separate 
examinations for French and English candidates. 



McGILL’S ENGINEERING COURSE. 

This Faculty, the youngest in the University is 
attracting more and more attention among the friends 
of the college, and among those who are contempla- 
ting entering the profession of engineering. 

Many shake their heads at a college°’ course in 
engineering, and decry “ book-engineers,” while there 
is a tendency among many head engineers to look 
rather suspiciously at college diplomas, and university 
degrees, which an applicant may present as his re- 
ferences. They certainly have some reason for this, 



as many graduates fully believe they know pretty 
nearly all about engineering that is worth knowing, 
and act upon this self-delusion when they begin actual 
work. In nearly every case they are found sadly 
wanting, being unable, even, to put in their stakes 
properly. For such a one his only salvation will be 
his willingness to condescend to begin at the begin- 
ing, and learn the practical part of engineering. 

We have met with chiefs who would have nothing 
to do with college men under any circumstance, but 
we have been impressed with the belief that, while they 
certainly had real grievances, their feelings were thu 3 
embittered to some degree by a secret feeling of regret 
that they had not been able to enjoy similar advan- 
tages. 

A college course will not make an engineer, but if 
properly used, will greatly help him to become one. 
While going through his course he must endeavor to 
avoid becoming too theoretical, and strive continually 
to become thoroughly practical, which is the key note 
to a successful engineer’s career. On entering the 
field for actual work, the graduate must be willing to 
keep what he has just learned at college to himself, 
and to quietly add by experiences gained day by day, 
gleaned from any source, however humble, to his 
knowledge already attained. When an engineers sees 
that a man is of this stamp, he will certainly look with 
some favor upon him, and even help him to advance. 

It is reasonable that a college course, if technical, 
must be invaluable to a young engineer, but we would 
strongly advise our graduates, to say little or nothing 
about their sheepskins or degrees, but to show by 
their deeds that they possess the stuff and merit of a 
true engineer. 

As to our course at McGill, we fully believe that it 
is becoming, despite the limited supply of apparatus, 
and restricted supply of room, more practical, and 
hence, more valuable. The temptation to indulge too 
much in theory is very great, and also perncious, but our 
course is now less theoretical than it was, and we can- 
not strongly complain on this point. The supply of 
apparatus is slowly increasing, though we sadly 
need much more, not to say a proper building. Our 
draughting rooms are rather dark and uninviting, but 
when we remember the many difficulties that have 
been o\ ercome in putting this faculty upon its present 
basL, we must congratulate our Principal and his 
colleagues upon the success so far attained. 

Oui new laboratories, the most complete and best 
equipped in Canada, now offer excellent opportunities 
t lose in mining and chemistry. The mechanical 
ouise has been strengthened by adding the lectures 
o one of the best engineer’s in the G.T.E. work-shops. 



1887.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



89 



We think that more work should be done in the 1st 
year, so as to give more time for draughting and 
practical field work, of which not enough is done ; 
and if the standard of admission is raised, students 
will prepare themselves for it, and come better fitted, 
and in as large a number. 

After all an engineer begins to learn when he begins 
actual work, and above all he must be practical, ablo 
to grasp the main details of his vork, and not dissipate 
his time and energies on minor parts : This is one 

great fault of college-engineers, they waste much time 
in doing some work with such accuracy and nicety 
not at all necessary. 

It is undoubted that many of our graduates are 
doing well. Some have chosen other professions or 
entered business, but the majority, with energy and 
perseverance, are pushing on to success. We can 
name many who now occupy high places of trust, 
while others are surely working up to prominence. It 
takes years of practical experience to make an expert 
engineer, and we are confident, that many men who 
have left these halls, will yet do honor to their pro- 
fession and to Alma Mater . 

Our professors are doing their utmost to help their 
students, and their efforts are so successful, that we 
believe our course of engineering is unrivalled by any 
other in Canada. This winter a valuable series of 
lectures by some of our best engineers has been 
inaugurated, at all of which the students of the Faculty 
of Applied Science assemble en masse, with many 
others from the city who are interested in engineering 
work. This is proving a very wise step, and we hope 
it will become a fixture on the curriculum of this 
course. 



Poetry. 



LACROSSE. 

Patriot Pontiac, redskin wily, 

Plotting death to his English friends, 

Did not value Lacrosse too highly 

When he made it subserve his ends. 

Well he knew that the noble game. 

Every thought, every glance would claim. 
Who could link it with death and shame ! 
Yes, that Indian plotted slyly. 

Mark how the restless ball is flying! 

Who would think it was hurled by hate ? 
See each man with his neighbour vieing, 

Swiftly pass the unguarded gate ! 

Hark to the thoughtless English cheers, 
Every player his victim nears, 

Pontiac speaks and the war-axe sheers 
Head to neck and the dead are lying. 

Years have passed since that time of sorrow, 
Pontiac lies in his grave of shame. 

In the light of a calmer morrow 

Naught remains but the grand old game. 
Precious gift of our dusky foes, 

Year by year into grace it grows, 

Every youth all its pleasure knows, 

While our neighbors have learned to borrow. 



Just as the summer sun comes peeping, 

O’er the edge of the drowsy earth, 

As the drunkard comes slowly creeping 
Homeward, merry with vinous mirth, 

Into the field each player hies, 

Breasting the breath of waking skies, 

Facing the world with sparkling eyes. 
Gathering strength while the dull are sleeping. 

Worthy son of our young Dominion, 

Tower of strength for her hour of need, 

Scarce the bird on its tireless pinion 
Can surpass him in stay and speed, 

Taught to follow the flying ball, 

Trained to laugh at a blow or fall, 

Knowing his rights and thoseof all, 

No one’s tyrant and no one’s minion. 

Mark two clubs when a game is playing. 

Each one striving with heart and soul, 

Feats of prowess and skill displaying, 

Driving the ball frum goal to goal. 

How the audience sway and cheer. 

As to one goal the ball draws near, 

Flying so swiftly there and here, 

Ne’er an instant in one place staying. 

John Smith. 



(Dontributions. 



A McGILL MAN. 

BY JAY WOLFE. 



Written for the University Oazetie. 

CHAP. VII. 

“ Night has let its curtain down 
And pinned it with a star.” 

September brought us all back to old McGill, ready 
for new work. I came back a few days earlier in 
order to see that Clooney and I would again board to- 
gether. We had kept up our friendship by a frequent 
interchange of letters, and I was dying to meet him 
again. He came up from home a few days after the 
session opened, and had apparently recovered from 
his wound, except for a certain graceful lassitude 
which I assured him would take with the girls, “ es- 
pecially with Miss Mayflower,” I added, with some 
hardihood, whereat he colored up and changed the 
subject. The boys, who had all lamented Clooney’s 
mishap, the more so since they did not know the good 
fortune that attended it, wished to give him a supper 
to celebrate his recovery. Clooney was modest and 
refused the honor, but the boys were not to be done out 
of some jollification, and their feelings found expres- 
sion in a presentation of a gold pin and a right good 
bouncing one day after the lectures in Physics. 

At his earliest opportunity Clooney paid a visit to 
Mrs. Mayflower, ostensibly to thank her formally for 
her hospitality and to show he had not forgotten it. I 
did not know of this visit until after it was over, so I 
cannot say what went on then. This, I know, that he 
used to visit there with great regularity, though he 
never alluded to Miss Mayflower in his conversations 
with me. I am a bit of a psychologist, and reasoned 
from this that the course of true love was running 
smoothly, for it is well-known that lovers usually seek 
confidants only when miserable. A man can enjoy 
all his pleasures himself, but likes to shove off part of 
his sorrows upon some one else. I gave him one 
warning and then left him alone ; I warned him not 
to become too intimate there or he would find all the 
right he had enjoyed as a guest vanish in the neglect 



90 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1887. 



of familiarity, most probably without bringing any 
equivalent reward. 

A man’s second year at college is much like his 
first. The months slipped by until autumn became 
winter, and winter, spring, bringing us once more 
into the throes of examinations. Only one incident 
of this session is worth recording, as showing the old 
method of administering the law and the way in which 
the law was treated in former times. 

One evening just after the theatre was out Clooney, 
Joe Rellek, a student in one of the law offices, Cutler 
and I were strolling homeward. We stopped for a 
few moments on the sidewalk, opposite the lodging- 
house of Rellek, and were very earnestly discussing 
the play, when a burly French policeman came along 
and addressed us — 

“ Vot you do here ?” 

Rellek went on talking, paying no attention to the 
question, and the bobby gently laid a hand upon his 
shoulder. “ Vot you do, here ? Move on ; go at the 
house !” he said with some acerbity. 

Rellek drew himself up. “ Take your hand off my 
shoulder, sir !” he said. “ Don’t you know the law 
better than that 1 How dare you talk to a peaceable 
citizen in this manner ? I’ll report you to your chief.” 

“ Vot you stay here, den,” replied the bobby. “ Go 
at your home ; you cannot stand on the paveway all 
de night.” 

Rellek began to pace a beat of about six feet. 

“ I can walk up and down here all night,” he said, 
“ and I defy you to arrest me. The law distinctly 
specifies that. If you do not immediately cease to 
annoy me, I will procure your dismissal from the 
force.” 

“ Go it, Rellek,” whispered Cutler, “ he’s weaken- 
ing.” 

The policeman stood speechless with wrath. It re- 
quires quite an intellect to distinguish between the 
dignity of a man’s position and his own importance, 
and some policemen are prone to think more of their 
own majesty than of that of the law. For example, a 
bobby who has had a snowball dropped down his 
neck by a schoolboy will give more attention to cap- 
turing the culprit than in arresting a burglar. The 
policeman was angry, and laid hands once more upon 
the collar of our legal luminary. 

“ You come me,” he exclaimed, determinedly, 
“ and you can tell de superintendent vat you vill.” * 

We were about to rescue Rellek, when he waved us 
back. 

1 11 go with you, he said to the policeman with 
calm dignity, “ and it will cost you your place and the 
city a round sum in damages. Come with me, bovs 
and see the fun.” J ’ 



Clooney and Cutler set out willingly enough but I 
replied : ’ 

“ Thank you, I’ll not put my head into the lions’ 
mouth, if I know it. Justice is one thing and law 
another, too often for my taste. I’ll see you all in the 
morning I hope.” And giving the bobby a wink 
which to this day I swear he returned, I put my hands 
in my pockets and sauntered home. 

About one o’clock next morning Clooney returned 
and told me a woeful tale, interspersed now and then 



by a hearty laugh at his own expense. It appears 
that on the" journey to the station Rellek continued 
his exposition of the law, and with the knack of see- 
ing things as he wanted them to be, a knack which he 
has nobly used in the profession in which he is now a 
leader, he managed so to inspire Cutler as to make 
him engage in the war of words, and between the 
two, the policeman, whose knowledge of English 
was imperfect, was led to fear for his position and yet 
to look upon the two as dangerous characters. Clooney 
himself thought the policeman doomed, for Rellek 
brought in every law that did and did not affect the 
subject from Magna Charta to Viet. 30th, and more. 
As soon as the party arrived at the station the police- 
man charged them with being disorderly and interfer- 
ing with him in the discharge of his duty, and the 
chief looked up severely from his book and asked 
their names. 

“Joseph Rellek,” said that worthy, stepping for- 
ward, “ and I have a grave charge to make against 
that policeman.” 

“ All in good time, sir,” replied the chief. “ Your 
occupation ?” 

“ Law student.” 

“ Your name, sir 1” This was to Cutler. Cutler 
was a medical student, and with the instinct of his 
class was prepared to meet the law. 

“ John Smith, musician,” he replied. li But please 
do not let my name appear, as my family is sensitive.” 
The chief then turned to Clooney and enquired his 
name. Clooney was in a state of distraction between 
Rellek’s answer and Cutler’s, and unconsciously took 
a middle course. 

“ Bloonardo Clake,” he said hastily. 

“What’s that, young man ?” exclaimed the chief, 
looking up. “ No fooling here, if you please.” 

Cutler and Rellek giggled right out, and even 
Clooney himself could not help smiling as the absurdity 
of the name became apparent to him. 

“ Take those men to the cells,” exclaimed the chief, 

“ I have had enough of this.” 

“ biot it I know it,” said Rellek. “ You must hear 
our defense, or at least take bail. You cannot keep 
us here all night.” 

V ell, gentlemen,” replied the chief, “ you cannot 
expect me to bear your chaff with patience. Give me 
j our names, and bail, and you may go.” 

They managed to scrape up enough bail money, and 
lelt the station, Clooney annoyed, Cutler glum, and 
Rellek gloating over the drubbing he would give the 
policeman in the court next morning. Clooney re- 
so ved to jump bail, but the others swore revenge and 
sai trey would have their money back, with an 
apo og) . Cutlers mishap was noised abroad next 
morning, and the word was passed for all the medical 
s u en s to muster at the college and march down to 
ie court in a body to see the trial. Clooney and I re- 
solved to attend in a private capacity, and at nine next 
morning a gieat concourse of students, marching in 

IS,- ♦w er ’ dn S in S s °ugs and armed, I regret to 
j > 'i i eniurs, set out through the streets to behold 
pfii°l ea f aud historic trial of “the Queen vs. Joseph 
e v, aw student, and John Smith, musician.” 

(To be continued.) 



1887 -] UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 91 

* 



“ A FEW WORDS ON ORATORY.” 



(Paper read before the University Literary Society, 17tli Dec 

1886 .) 

Mr. President and Gentlemen, — 

In this evening’s paper it is proposed to make a 
few remarks on oratory or eloquence, a matter which 
a considerable number amongst us will probably 
claim as one specially their own, or, at any rate, as 
one to some proficiency in which we hope to attain. 

The subject is one of no small consequence, and 
which, to do justice to, would require much more time 
and attention than is likely to be allotted to the prepara- 
tion of a short essay to be read at an ordinary weekly 
meeting of our club, and, perhaps, on hearing the 
title to the present paper, you will be inclined to 
ask, with the poet Horace — ■“ Quid dignum tanto 
feret hie promissar hiatu ? ” How is the promise 
given with such a flourish of trumpets likely to be 
fulfilled 1 However, from the constitution of our 
Society, a member is encouraged to treat of, and dis- 
cuss, subjects, the introduction of which might other- 
wise appear somewhat bold. 

To mankind naught is so sweet as the sound of the 
human voice. 

You will recollect the word-; put in the mouth of 
Robinson Crusoe, appalled and overborne by the fear- 
ful solitude of his island domain : — 

“ I am out of humanity’s reach, 

1 must finish my journey alone, 

Never hear the sweet music of speech — 

I start at the sound of my own .” — Cote per. 

I remember once hearing a musician, of no mean 
ability, make the remark that all musical instruments 
were made to resemble, as far as possible in their 
several sounds, the various intonations of the human 
voice. 

It is almost needless to point out the power, force, 
and influence of eloquence in all ages, for he who has 
acquired the art of oratory is possessed, in a free 
country, of the most powerful engine which one man 
can make use of over his fellows. To what agency 
did St. Paul owe his marvellous success in spreading 
the doctrines of Christianity, but to his great gift of 
language, and his passionate appeals were attended 
with all the greater effect from their being clothed in 
language, the grace and beauty of which at once 
charmed and convinced his hearers. 

Peter the Hermit succeeded, by his preaching, in 
enlisting thousands in the service of the Cross, and 
by the same influence induced the flower of the 
Christian chivalry to expend their treasure and sacri- 
fice their lives in the attempt to wrest the Holy 
Sepulchre from the hands of the Infidels. But to go 
further and multiply examples would be an easy but 
unnecessary task. 

“ Nestor, the leader of the Pylian host, 

The smooth-tongued chief, from whose persuasive lips, 
Sweeter than honey, flowed the stream of speech ; 

Tw’o generations of the sons of men 

For him were past and gone, who, with himself, 

Were born and bred on Pylos’ lovely shore, 

And o’er the third he now held royal sway.” 



Language is the dress of thought, or the incarna- 
tion of thought and oratory. Eloquence, or the art of 
public speaking, whose object is to please and per- 
suade, Lord Chesterfield tells his son, is so very use- 
ful in every part of life, and so absolutely essential 
in most, that a man can make no figure, or at least 
but a poor figure, without it ; in Parliament, in the 
church, or in the law, and even in common conversa 
tion, a man that has acquired an easy and habitual 
eloquence, who speaks properly and accurately, will 
have a great advantage over those who speak incor- 
rectly and inelegantly. 

You will all recollect Hamlet’s advice to the 
players : — 

“ Speak the speech, I pray you, as I pronounced it to you, 
tiippingly on the tongue ; but if you mouth it, as many of your 
players do, I had as lief the town-crier spoke my lines. Nor 
do not saw the air too much with your hand ; ” * * * “ but 
use all gently, for in the very torrent, tempest, and, as 1 may 
say, the whirlwind of passion, you must acquire and beget a 
temperance that may give it smoothness ; and it offends me to 
the soul to hear a robustious, periwig- pated fellow tear a passion 
to tatters — to very rags — to split the ears of the groundlings ; 
who, for the most part, are capable of nothing but inexplicable 
dumb shows and noise. I would have such a fellow whipped 
for o’erdoing Termagant ; it out-herods Herod. Pray you avoid 
it.” * * * “Be not too tame neither, but let your own 

discretion be your tutor ; suit the action to the word, the word 
to the action ; with this special observance, that you o’erstep 
not the modesty of nature.” And so on. 

In the ancient world eloquence flourished, especi- 
ally and almost exclusively, in the free countries 
where the government was by the people, whose ap- 
proval of the policy of those aspiring to lead had first 
to be obtained before such policy could be put in 
execution ; for where the people had no voice there 
was there little room for eloquence, and we see that 
in proportion as the liberty of the ancient Greek 
states vanished so did the art of eloquence decline. 

It is chiefly to Athens that we must look for the 
birth and growth of ancient oratory, and it was there 
also that it flourished to a degree such as has never 
since been equalled. 

A country composed in great part of lofty moun- 
tains and beautiful valleys, of which that of Tempe 
enjoyed a world-wide reputation for romantic gran- 
deur, a mythology which gave to every mountain top 
and every grove and valley, and almost, indeed, to 
every bush and thicket, a god or goddess, and a 
nymph to every fountain ; a history replete with 
noble traditions and tales of heroic feats performed 
on behalf of their country, and a gorgeous southern 
sky, tinting every object of nature, and giving it a 
hue of romance, all combined to foster amongst the 
Greeks a highly sensitive and poetic iingination, and 
tended in no small degree to the attainment and per- 
fection of those higher but chastened and elegant 
flights of eloquence for which their orators of note 
were so famous ; but it was, above all, to the free and 
popular constitution of Athens that Grecian oratory 
owned its great success. 

From the extremely democratic nature of the 
Athenian institutions, it was almost a necessity that 
anyone who aspired to attain a high position in the 
State should be a master of eloquence ; the whole 
public business, both political and judicial, was trans- 



UNIVERSITY gazette. 



[ 1887 . 




acted in the open assemblies and courts of the citi- 
zens, and by the people themselves— each Athenian 
citizen being both a statesman and judge by his pre- 
rogative of birth —and although the laws had been 
reduced to a code, neither advocate nor judge confined 
himself very scrupulously to the letter of the text, it 
being customary for the former not to restrict his 
remarks merely to the matter directly in issue, but to 
launch out into extraneous circumstances and to 
make reflections on the character of the opposite 
party, but remotely connected with the question at 
issue, in a manner which would never be permitted 
in a modern court of law. The Athenians, being 
specially susceptible to the charms of eloquence, they 
delighted in the intellectual contests of the rival 
orators, and gleefully bestowed their plaudits at the 
various sallies of wit or abuse, as is told in the Acts 
of the Apostles when St. Paul was brought by the 
Epicureans and Stoics to the Areopagus, to hear what 
he had to say — “ For all the Athenians and strangers 
who were there spent their time in nothing else but 
either to tell or to hear something new,” and it may 
be easily imagined to what a height any popular 
demagogue could carry his power in a like state of 
society, and so sensible, indeed, were the Athenians 
of the danger that they hit upon the system of ostra- 
cism, by which anyone who was becoming obnoxious 
by gaining too great popular power might be quietly 
banished from the State. 

The oratory of Athens was not altogether of home 
growth, but we have no evidence that its culture ever 
reached such a degree of perfection as it did amongst 
the inhabitants of that democratic city. The first 
professors of the art — for it must be remembered that 
it was zealously studied, and schools Avere opened 
Avhere the art of speaking Avas the chief subject of 
instruction — Avere Protagoras of Abd4ra, in the 5th 
century B.C., Gorgias, Lipias, Isocrates, and others; 
but the most interesting and brilliant period of its 
history is that of the age of the rivals Aeschines and 
Demosthenes, for it Avas about this time, B.C. 340, 
that the profession of public speaking became separ 
ated from that of the statesman and soldier, Avith Avhich 
it had formerly been usually blended. 

Demosthenes, the greatest orator of a people who 
esteemed the art of eloquence above all others, was 
born not only with a body so frail and sickly as to 
prevent him from undergoing the fatigue of the ordi- 
nary gymnastic exercises in Avhich the youth of the 
city Avere trained, but Avas also hampered by a Aveak 
voice and a difficulty of utterance almost amounting 
to stammering ; he, hoAvever, at a very early age ap- 
plied himself to the task of speaking in public, his 
first speech being directed against his guardians, who 
had defrauded him of a great portion of his patri- 
mony, and being partially successful in this, he Avas 
emboldened to try his hand at speaking before the 
public assembly, in Avhich, however, he met with but 
poor success, and Avas even greeted Avith jeers and 
hooting, and Avas only prevented from giving Avay to 
despair by several friends Avho were present, and Avho 
thought they had detected some sparks of latent 
genius, and being induced by their Avords of encour- 
agement to make a further effort, he began by setting 



himself resolutely to work to overcome his natural 
disadvantages; he withdrew from the world, and 
devoted himself with unwearied energy to the study 
of the art, and it was only by his indomitable perse- 
verance and continued application that lie overcame 
the defects of an unkind nature. He studied all the 
works procurable on the theory of eloquence, and 
such as furnished him with hints and rules for its 
cultivation; it is said that he copied out the history 
of Thucidydes no less than eight times, and could 
almost repeat it from memory, and besides this, was 
continually exercising himself in Avriting essays on 
such subjects as Avere suggested by passing events 
It is related also that, in order to cure himself of 
stammering, he practised speaking with pebbles in 
his mouth, and to strengthen his voice repeated 
verses of the poets Avhile running up hill ; that he 
Avas in the habit also of declaiming on the sea-shore 
in stormy Aveather, in order to accustom himself to 
the din and uproar of the public assembly, and to 
avoid interruption Avhile Avriting out and studying 
the history of Thucidydes, he lived for months in a 
cave, cut off from intercourse with the world. Of his 
orations, some 61, on political and judicial subjects, 
have come doAvn to us, and all shoAV evidence of great 
care and labour in their preparation ; in fact, he 
hardly ever came before the public without previously 
Avriting out his speech, having attributed in great 
measure his first ill-success to the lack of preparation 
and the Avant of confidence arising therefrom. TV bile 
in literature and art the premier places are in dispute 
between the critics, almost all agree to award to 
Demosthenes the palm of first excellence in matters 
of eloquence — the Boman testimonies of Cicero and 
Quintilian range side by side Avith the patriotic 
eulogies of Dionysius and Longinus, and in our age 
Lord Brougham vouches that at the head of all “ the 
mighty masters of speech, the adoration of ages has 
consecrated his place, and the loss of the noble instru- 
ment Avith which he forged and launched his thun- 
ders is sure to maintain it unapproachable for ever.” 
And his great rival and bitter personal enemy, 
iEschines, Avho Avas banished from Greece, and set up 
a school of oratory at Rhodes, Avhere, haA'ing one day 
read to his pupils his own speech against Ctesiphon, 
Avas met Avith expressions of their surprise that he 
should have been defeated after such an oration, says, 
“ You Avould cease to Avonder if you had heard De- 
mosthenes.” 

His style of composition Avas sublime, but simple, 
redundant, yet concise, marked by great purity, Avith 
clear and logical arrangement, an entire freedom from 
captions, alliteration, or meretricious decoration, and 
of so highly wrought a texture that a critic bestoAvs a 
A\ r hole page on a sentence of a dozen words to show 
the delicacy of its structure, and the disorder Avliicli 
Avould folloAv the slighest alteration or transposition 
of any of its parts ; but yet his speeches are of one 
such harmonious Avhole that any attempt to give the 
effect of an oration by a selection, or the merit of the 
Avhole by splendid passages, Avould be as hopeless as 
to endeavour to produce an adequate idea of the 
statue of Appollo by the production of a finger or 
an ear. 



1887.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



93 



Amongst the Romans, although eloquence flourished 
to a certain extent during the early period of the 
Republic, as it must have done in a country boasting 
of great freedom of debate, yet it never attained to 
any degree of polished elegance until the conquest of 
Magna Groecia in the South of the Peninsula, and of 
Greece itself, from whence the Roman speakers de- 
rived their models — their own oratory being in great 
part an imitation of that of ancient Hellas. Cicero 
says of Antonius and Licinius Crassus, two celebrated 
orators who flourished in the period between the time 
of the Gracchi and the Ciceronian age, that they both 
owed their eminence to a diligent study of Greek 
literature, and to the instructions of Greek professors, 
and Cicero also drew largely upon the stores of 
Athenian learning in preparing himself for the part 
of a public speaker, having, at the age of 25, made a 
voyage to tho East, in the course of which he re- 
mained a considerable time at Athens, applying him- 
self to a diligent study of the Grecian models. Cicero's 
style was exuberant and somewhat florid, and even 
wanting in dignity when compared with the lofty 
energy and the terseness of the Athenian master- 
pieces. An English writer says of his speeches : — 
“ Compared with the dignified energy and majestic 
vigour of the Athenian orator, the Asiatic exuberance 
of some of his orations may be fatiguing to the sober 
and chastened taste of the modern classical scholar ; 
but in order to form a just appreciation, he must 
transport himself mentally to the excitements of the 
thronged forum, to the Senate, composed not of aged 
venerable men, but statesmen and warriors in the 
prime of life, maddened with the party spirit of 
revolutionary times ; to the presence of the jury of 
pidices, as numerous as a deliberative assembly, 
whose office was not merely calmly to give their 
verdict of guilty or not guilty, but who were in- 
vested as representatives of the sovereign people with 
the prerogative of pardoning or condemning. Viewed 
in this light, his most florid passages will appear free 
from affectation — the natural flow of a speaker carried 
away with the torrent of his enthusiasm.” 

Cicero was the advocate, par excellence, of the later 
Roman times ; his object was first to win, and from 
him comes the oft-discussed maxim that a lawyer in 
pleading for his client — be the case just or unjust — 
should give to the cause not only all his learning and 
all his wit, but also all his sympathy ; he divests 
himself entirely of his own individuality, and as- 
sumes another’s, in whatever cause he has taken up. 
Where sympathy is demanded he proffers it, even to 
tears ; where flattery is required, it is not stinted ; 
and where abuse is considered advisable, he pours it 
out in overwhelming torrents, and far beyond what 
modern taste and manners would sanction. 

(To be continued.) 

COMPOSITION IN SCHOOLS. 

(A paper read before the McG.N.S.T A.) 

I make the following brief observations upon Com- 
position in Schools, strong in the belief that some who 
hear me have not done very much better than 1 have, 
in teaching this very important subject, and equally 



convinced that many of you have been very much 
more successful. 

I have not attempted to discuss the method of 
teaching the subject at alL I have attempted to put 
down, as accurately as the very brief time at my dis- 
posal would allow, what I consider to be the proper 
place of this subject in the school ; for after all is it 
not true that, when we have formed a correct estimate 
of the subject in hand, and have carefully, and as a 
teacher ought, invented a method suitable to our own 
individual style of teaching and train of thought, wo 
can scarcely be unsuccessful with whatever method 
we may adopt ? 

If there is one subject more than another which 
should receive the special attention of the teachers of 
a country it is, in my opinion, the mother tongue of 
the people ; I would throw around this subject a halo 
of patriotism and duty, and would endeavour by 
every means in my power to invest it in the minds of 
children with an importance amounting almost to 
sacredness. And this surely not without reason. The 
greatest power in the world to-day, whether exercised 
by the aggressor or by him who defends his rights, is 
human speech. And just in proportion as the lan- 
guage of a people becomes refined and expressive, so 
it becomes universally necessary and so all-powerful. 
No attachment is more enduring than that which peo- 
ple have for their mother tongue, and no attach- 
ment can be more effectively utilized in the interests 
of Christianity and of progress. Then returning to 
our relations as a profession to this branch of study 
in our schools ; of all those who exercise our calling, 
the wide world over, none can point to a grander 
literature expressed in a nobler tongue than can we, 
the English teachers. 

I have said this much upon the language itself, be- 
cause, as I shall attempt to show, we cannot teach com- 
position rightly otherwise than step by step with the 
grammar of the language ; and I wish to protest 
against a complaint not infrequently heard among us, 
— a complaint that I have heard even among the cul- 
tured and scientific teachers of Montreal — that Eng- 
lish grammar cannot be satisfactorily taught : with 
this statement I have no sympathy whatever. I cannot 
help thinking that it originates in an ignorance of 
what the true aim of teaching the grammar of a lan- 
guage is. It is altogether too aristocratic a complaint 
for this democratic age and this democratic language. I 
can understand how men who have been trained to 
admire, and have learned to appreciate the highly 
artificial and lofty syntax of the languages of ancient 
Greece or Rome, should hold our rules of English 
grammar in light repute as a definite and certain code, 
how by comparison they may regard the rules of Eng- 
lish grammar as inextricable confusion. But I can- 
not understand how even these men, when they con- 
sider the vast power of expansion of which our 
language is capable, can expect to understand it in 
its entirety by endeavouring to submit it to rules 
which, though fully explanatory of the tongue for which 
they were originally framed, are yet quite inadequate 
for the proper understanding of the genius of the 
English tongue. A study of, and an acquaintance 
with, the languages of all other peoples is doubtless 



94 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1887. 



of immense advantage to the student of English, hut 
this study and this knowledge becomes a positive in- 
jury if it teach him to regard the rules of English 
grammar as a somewhat unimportant corollary to a 
very important proposition. There may be found in 
many states of Europe to day constitutions much more 
logically defined and clearly enunciated than that 
under which we live ; who of us would entrust our 
liberties and our lives to the logic of the French or 
of the German code in preference to that motley, and, 
at first sight, even paradoxical, multitude of rules, 
permeated, however, through and through by the 
spirit of righteousness, of which the British constitu- 
tion is composed. Just as the codes of Europe have 
sacrificed breadth and vigour to system and expedi- 
ency, so have their languages lost power and expression 
for the trivial gain of order and expressible precision. 
Just as the English constitution has expanded and 
developed in the interest of mankind, and not upon 
the principles of scientific jurisprudence, so has our 
language grown and developed not upon the lines of 
precise rules of grammar, but upon the lines of human 
needs and the requirements of modern thought and 
activity. Does the teacher of English complain that 
because of a want of a fully developed system of rules 
he cannot teach the language 1 as well might the judge 
on the bench refuse to dispense justice, because the 
body of English law is, even at the best, an unsystem- 
atized collection of rules. He does not refuse, and as 
a consequence there flows from the British Bench to- 
day a stream of justice drawn from this very wealth 
of confusion which is the boast of the people and the 
admiration of the world. And so with the teacher of 
English. Are his responsibilities any the less because 
he is unable to point to the exact rule for every form 
of expression of which the language is capable 1 Surely 
not ; his responsibilities become from the very nature 
of the case greater. To him is intrusted the great 
task of keeping the grammar of the language in some 
measure up with, and an index of, the marvellous 
tongue whose name it bears. The teacher of English 
must understand that he is dealing with no dry and 
polished cabinet of formulce which must not be broken 
and which cannot be disregarded, but with a great 
mass of precedents and examples from which he is 
asked to extricate rules which will admit of expansion 
and which will yet guard the language from vulgarisms 
and deterioration. 

But my chief aim is to shew that composition must 
be taught step by step with the grammar. Of all the 
subjects I have ever taught, I think I have made in 
none, so many blunders and failures as in this subject 
of composition. I attribute this to the fact that the true 
object of teaching composition was never put clearly 
before me until 1 had, at the expense of many pupils, 
convicted myself of failure. A teacher will never be 
successful in teaching any subject until he has an- 
swered satisfactorily to himself the question : — How 
is this class going to utilize what I am now giving 
them 1 I think it is impossible to teach the rules of 
grammar without linking each of them with an exer- 
cise in composition, and this I know, that I have taught 
composition effectively only from the time that I began 
to regard it as the indispensable counterpart of gram- 



mar. Why we put down in our curricula grammar 
and composition as two distinct subjects I am at a loss 
to understand. I think it is a mistake, and not an un- 
important one either. I hold that grammar has no 
raison d'etre at all, if it is not to render the child 
capable of composing correctly ; that everything which 
we can teach of composition in schools, properly comes 
under the rules of grammar ; that if the subjects can 
in any sense be considered separately, they are inex- 
tricably intertwined and interdependent. I take it 
to be a very great disadvantage indeed if it is ever 
necessary to have grammar taught by two different 
teachers to the same class. My reason for so regarding 
it will, I think, be readily gathered from what I have 
said about English grammar already. I regard it as a 
means by which we are enabled to get a correct idea 
of the leading principles of the language, by which we 
may vigorously and clearly express thought, and not 
as by any means a code of rules and definitions which 
demand an entire and precise adhesion to. If then I 
am correct in what I have said as regards the object 
of grammar itself, holding this latter view upon the 
relations between grammar and composition, it is 
equally a disadvantage to have them taught the same 
classes by different masters. To this want of appre- 
ciation of the intimate connection between the two 
subjects I attribute much of my want of success. The 
subjects had become divorced in my mind, and, as a 
consequence while I taught some composition in 
teaching grammar, I wasted valuable time in wading 
through ill-arranged and worse-conceived juvenile 
twaddle under the belief that I was teaching compos- 
sition. 

I will here, at this point, tabulate the thoughts 
which I have in mind, upon taking up the subject of 
grammar and composition with a class of beginners. 
It is the motive power of every subsequent lesson. 
You will understand that I am not here synopsizing 
lessons to be given the class, but simply detailing my 
own plan of work : 

1. Man thinks. 

2. He is endowed with power to communicate his 
thoughts. 

3. He communicates thoughts by signs. 

4. These signs appeal to the ear and to the eye. 

5. There is a right and a wrong way of employing 
these signs. 

6. The right way and its importance. 

7. The wrong way and its evil effects. 

Now, acting upon this plan, we may start a gram- 
mar lesson with the letters of the alphabet ; as the 
child arranges these in words, the teacher will not for- 
get that the first lesson in composition is taken. 
Primary as it may appear, it is at the basis of all 
effective writing, and cannot be too carefully attended 
to; but it is entirely beyond the scope of a paper of 
this nature to enter upon the actual details of the 
teaching ; as the vocabulary is enlarged and the re- 
lations of the words are being learned, the teacher 
has explained a sentence, has taken the second step 
in composition. And, from this onward, the rules of 
the simple, the complex, and the compound sentence 
are learned with a view to the expression of a series 
of thoughts logically connected. 



1887.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



95 



It is a fact that already we treat under the head of 
Grammar the ditferent kinds of 6ontences, their con- 
nection in a writing and their interdependence. Now, 
in passing over to what the text-books usually placo 
in works on composition only, viz., conversion and 
combination of sentences, variety of expression, style, 
prosody and versification, there is no real difference 
between the matter treated of under these heads and 
that which we have been already considering. And 
in making this arbitrary division we gain nothing, 
and, to my mind, aro in danger of losing sight of the 
continuity of the whole subject. Each one of these 
latter headings finds its appropriate place in the 
teacher’s scheme, when he looks upon the subject 
which he is teaching as a complicated, extremely de- 
licate aud very powerful machine. The workman 
who is to control its movements must not only un- 
derstand it in detail, must not only be able to adjust 
every screw and bolt, but must understand how to 
alter the combination, so that it may perform very 
ditferent offices and yet do no injury to the beauty 
and the power of the mechanism. 

Now, I feel that it is a matter of comparative un- 
importance whether we teach certain rules under the 
name of grammar, or under that of composition, so 
long as we teach them effectively, but I do hold it of 
the highest importance that we should not allow a 
misapprehension of the subject taught to draw us 
away to attempt to teach what we connot. I fear very 
much that this confusion, which I really believe to 
exist, has caused many teachers to spend time in try- 
ing to get pupils to originate ideas. This we cannot 
do by lessons in composition. The whole training of 
the child will, it is to be hoped, eventually educate 
hi3 faculties and mature his powers so that he will be 
able to do this ; but all we can do in our schools in 
teaching composition is to train children to express 
thought when they have got it. 

I consider the practice of having children write so- 
called compositions upon given subjects as very ob- 
jectionable, in that it is aimless writing, and, there- 
fore worthless. I Avould not deny pupils the oppor- 
tunity of exercising their powers in this direction al- 
together, but I would occupy very little of their time 
with it. With very young pupils, the ideas should be 
given them in all cases, and they should be simply 
asked to arrange them according to the grammatical 
rules which they have already learnt. As regards 
older children, the greatest possible care should be 
taken in the selection of the subjects upon which 
they are asked to write, and these subjects should in 
every case be selected with a view to their being of 
interest in se, for the pupils and such as will lead to 
individual original forms of expression. 

I am aware that many good writers hold that they 
make little or no use of the rules of composition 
taught in schools. This, however, I cannot believe 
to be correct. I have no doubt whatever but that 
good writers never consciously utilize any one of these 
rules, but if the interior workings of their minds 
could be analyzed and the process of composition 
scanned, I cannot help thinking that these very rules, 
which they apparently disregard, play no unimport- 
ant part in fixing their style. 



What, however, I wish to emphasize in these re- 
ni.nks is this, that we can do little for pupils in 
school beyond preparing them to compose. We must 
not separate the subject from grammar, and yet we 
must not teach dogmatic rules here, wherever else we 
may insist on them. 



A SUMMER MEMORY. 
by carl fuller. 



Written for the University Gazette. 



The French Valley Canal System is intended to 
connect the Bay of Quinte, on Lake Ontario, with 
the Georgian Bay, and as the work of constructing 
locks and improving the channel is now in progress, 
it will probably not be long before the beautiful 
water- stretches along the route become familiar 
haunts of the tourist, when they must necessarily 
lose that air of wild freedom, now their chiefest 
charm. The Back Lakes, as they are called, have for 
years been the favourite resort of canoe cruisers, and 
Juniper Island, in Story Lake, one of the chain, was, 
a year or two ago, selected by the American Canoe 
Association as the ground for their annual camp. 

This picturesque island could hardly be called a 
camping ground, however, as there is hardly enough 
soil to hold a tent peg, besides which, it was so over- 
run with centipedes that our American Cousins, 
finding these rapid travellers entering fully into the 
spirit of the meeting — and the tea, too, for that mat- 
ter — decided to leave them in undisturbed possession 
of the place. I had my last view of J uniper Island 
one beautiful evening last August. Coming round a 
rocky point, we saw the dark bank of trees, and for 
background the brilliant glories of the setting sun 
casting deep shadows on the cool, smooth depths 
over which our canoe glided silently. There were 
two or three tents near the shore, where the thin 
smoke from the camp fires rose like incense at an 
evening sacrifice. We were going to Sandy Point in 
Clear Lake and, losing sight of the camps, were soon 
gliding swiftly through a glorious water-way across 
which a bird dashed from time to time, visiting the 
feathered songsters that on either side wake the 
echoes with their evening hymns. This evening I 
was thoroughly in accord with the spirit of the calm 
sweetness of the lingering sunlight. I was \oung, 
and I had seen a vision of surpassing loveliness, and 
it is this vision and the attendant circumstances that 
it. was in my mind to describe when I wrote the title 

of this little sketch. .. 

It happened in this way. Farther up the chain is 
a broad and charming sheet of water known as otur- 
rreon Lake, one of the most imposing lakes in the 
series. We had been camped at the upper end ot 
the lake for a couple of days, the scenery being very 
beautiful, the fishing fair, and Sturgeon Point an 



96 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1887. 



attractive summer resort with every access, all matters 
of interest to a canoeist in search of the dolce far 
niente which the student yearns for in the month of 
August. By “ me,” you must understand four able- 
bodied canoemen travelling in two canoes, with a 
large tent and camp equipment, “ enough, and no 
more.” You would have concurred in this if you 
had once seen the party dine, but as the number of 
canoes was limited, the inconvenience was proportion- 
ately small. To come to the story, however, we left 
this beautiful camping ground about nine one warm 
summer morning, with the wind coming in gentle 
puffs, barely strong enough to keep the canoes in 
motion. I should have said before that we were 
rigged for sailing, and used this means of navigating 
as often as possible. It is so much pleasanter to sit 
back quietly while the gentle zephyrs do the work 
and keep you cool at the same time than it is to work 
your passage against a head wind, with no other con- 
solation than the thought that you are working up a 
good forearm and the hope of getting there in time 
for the next meal. This particular morning the wind 
was fitful, and when the canoes had drifted across 
to Sturgeon Point the breeze died out entirely, and 
there was nothing for it but to land ! 

At Sturgeon Point, however, this was no great 
hardship, for it was very pleasant, under the shady 
butternuts and elms, to lie upon the soft grass and 
watch the graceful squirrels skipping with noisy 
chatter from bough to bough overhead, while all the 
air was filled with the dreamy hum and fragrance of 
the midsummer. About eleven there came a gentle 
ripple far out on the lake, and this, bye and bye, 
floating shoreward, we put out to meet it, and were 
soon drifting away from the Point under a light 
breeze. Later, the breeze freshened, and we had a 
glorious sail down the lake j one of the most enjoy- 
able mornings of the cruise. I shall not stop to 
describe the scenery as we bowled along through the 
lake, past the island, and down into the narrows, 
where a landing was made for luncheon. 

I had hoped to tell you something about the Back 
Lakes j of the beautiful scenery and cosy camping- 
grounds, the fishing — when we rose before the sun 

and caught huge maskinonge in the misty dawn the 

yarns by the camp-fire, when we lit our pipes and 
toasted our toes before turning in for the night, or 
of the multitude of little incidents which arise in 
every outing of the kind ; but I have, unfortunately, 
digressed, and I cannot think that even the most 
exacting reader would have me go back now when 
we have just landed in the narrows for luncheon. 
There is the fire lighted already, and the water has 
just commenced to bubble melodiously, the tin plates 
are unpacked, and as it is only a “ bite by the way,” 
as the day’s journey is to be a long one, we make a 
pot of tea, and then drop in a few fresh eggs to com- 
plete the bill of fare. This finished, the canoes are 
loaded, and we are just lighting our pipes when a 
huge cloud of black smoke is seen issuing over Bob- 
cageon. The canoes are hurriedly pushed off and 
paddled vigorously in the direction of the fire. Un- 
fortunately, our comrades have a smaller canoe, and 
soon leave my chum and I far behind. It may be 



well to say, by way of parenthesis, that I am disin- 
clined to hard paddling, particularly just after lunch, 
so as there was a very little wind coming in uncertain 
puffs, I suggested hoisting the sail, which we had not 
intended to use until the locks were passed. By this 
time we had reached a spot where the river widened 
considerably, forming a little lake. 

If it were not essential to the faithful description 
of the “vision of surpassing loveliness ” mentioned 
above, I could wish to pass over in silence the trifling 
incident which resulted from our attempt to hoist that 
sail when going before the wind. Let us hope that it 
may be a warning to other canoeists. The sail was 
just about half way up when a nasty little puff struck 
us, and before, as the poet says, “ you could say Jack 
Robinson ” the canoe was bottom up. I was in the 
stern and just “ stepped out,” but my companion, 
who sat amidships, was less fortunate, and had to 
make the circuit before he again saw the sun. It was 
rather funny to see the look of surprise with which 
he came to the surface, feeling for his hat, which had 
stayed on his head, and rubbing the water out of his 
eyes. The canoe was loaded with blankets, tent, 
cooking utensils, groceries, and indeed the greater part 
of our outfit. There we were, then, swimming about 
with all sorts of odds and ends floating around us. By 
each taking an end we managed to light the canoe, but 
as she was full of water, this did not improve our 
position very much, although it saved our blankets 
which, being tightly bundled up, did not take in the 
water very quickly. And now for the vision. Just 
as we upset, a little pleasure steamer came around the 
point below and, seeing the accident, made for us with 
full steam. As she came along side I looked up from 
my watery resting place and saw that there were 
several ladies and gentlemen on board. A moment 
later my eyes rested on one fair form, and I felt a 
thrill that sent the blood tingling to my toes, and 
probably saved me from the chill which might other- 
wise have followed the prolonged ducking. She 
stood on the upper deck, neatly dressed in soft, cool 
grey, with a straw bonnet framing the perfect oval of 
her face. Cherry coloured ribbons tied under her chin 
brightened the whole picture, and confined the dark 
rebellious tresses that clustered on her brow and strove 
to reach the dimpled cheek. What shall I say of her 
eyes, that looked down into mine with a curious 
amusement, half pity and perhaps anxiety, but all 
bright, sparkling roguery ! Shall I confess an answer- 
ing smile, why not? Those eyes were irresistible, and 
above all comforting, and friendly. 

A moment later the ecstasy was suddenly dis- 
sipated by the arrival of other assistance, and I had to 
clamber into a most unromantic flat bottomed punt ! 

I dare say, dear reader, that you feel the same regret 
that I did at this commonplace termination to my 
romance, and to console you I may add that this was 
not the end of it after all. I have still to attain that 
blissful state of which Aldrich wrote : 

“ When my hair is gray. 

Then I shall be wise ; 

Then, thank Heaven ! I shall not care 
For bronze-brown eyes.” 



1887.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



97 



ON THE WILL. 



PflcflMU News. 



[Translated from the German.] 

When I speak of the will, I do not wish to ho 
understood that power, neither a higher nor a lower, 
of wish or desire, but that inner power of the soul 
which develops in all directions, like the blossoms out 
of the leaves, an active energy of being, which is 
easier to feel and acknowledge than to define, and 
which might be more fittingly named the pure practical 
power in man. 

The most spiritually weak has tho knowledge that 
he possesses the power to will, which dovelops in the 
spiritually strong — character, — this strength is the 
individual man who, moved by imagination and under- 
standing, reveals the wonders of the spiritual life. 
The moralist, the lawyer, the teacher, the physician, 
and whom we just have in mind the nourisher of souls 
must seek to develop the power of the spirit. 

The enlightened soul of Stahl is an example of this 
power; he proclaimed many wonders which -were 
veiled in the night of instinct; — and -when instinct is 
evolved into consciousness as will, shall less be accom- 
plished 1 

If the reason is erring, it will in vain attempt to 
clear the intelligence, but when the effort to will is 
aroused, what great effects must even the spiritually 
weak experience. 

The sick in soul and body by learning this, would 
prepare a balsam for their hearts. For the power to 
will can be formed, and in a certain sense learned, and 
there never was moro need to pronounce and to repeat 
this than in our days; while rejoicing in the luxurious 
culture of the imagination and the intelligence, the 
proper strength to act, and to live is depressed. 

If character, as Hardenberg says, is a perfectly 
formed will, there can remain no doubt as to what is 
really the aim of character formation. 

The undertanding reasons and determines, the feel- 
ings are aroused by the first impressions, but the will 
may contradict : shall we say, then, that the will is 
against the reason and feeling? Certainly not — but it 
would be our duty to make the will pliant without 
weakness, and strong without relentlessness. 

The inner man is only one power, but this ability of 
turning towards the right and with continued deter- 
mination is what is required. 

Reflection, one might exclaim with Carlos of a 
generation, that is like Clairgo, is a sickness of the 
soul, and has ever done sickly deeds. The most 
miserable condition of the mind is not to be able to 
will. An effort of the will may free one from all 
suffering and painful injustice. “ Know thy self, 
and then thou art all thou wast, and all thou canst be.” 

Body and Soul languish in a hundred fetters which 
are unbreakable, but also in a hundred others that 
we fasten upon ourselves, which a single resolution 
may tear, called in society by conventional names, as 
indecision, distraction or absence of mind, indisposi- 
tion or ill-humour, moodiness or irritibility — and we 
excuse them, but they should be called by their names, 
the demons of the soul. 

C. 



Mr. Hector Buie has been appointed Valedictorian 
of the Graduating Class in Law for ’87. 

Melbourne Tait Q. C., Law ’62, has been appointed 
to the Bench, in place of Judge Buchanan, resigned. 

Hon. L. R. Church, Medicine ’57, has been appoint- 
ed a judge of the Court of Queen’s Bench, in place of 
the late Mr. Justice Ramsay. 



THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE 
CORPORATION. 

At the meeting of corporation held on the 26th 
instant resolutions of condolence were passed in refer- 
ence to the decease of Rev. Dr. Wilkes, Hon. Judge 
Torrance and Mr. R. A. Ramsay, and notice was given 
of the appointment by the governors of Dr. Alexander 
Johnson as dean of the Faculty of Arts and vice-prin- 
cipal. 

Returns were made of the students in the several 
faculties as follows : — 

Law 20 

Medicine 228 

Arts, men 156 

Arts, Women 78 

Applied science 57 

McGill Normal school 92 

Morrin college 25 

St. Francis college 16 

672 

The report of the library showed a total number of 
volumes 25,705. For the last quarter there had been 
951 readers, 35 visitors. 

The report of the museum committee showed many 
important donations and improvements, and that 
classes numbering 180 students daily use its class rooms 
and collections, while there had been 1,600 visitors. 
Donations of $1,000 from Mr. Redpath and of $500 
from Mr. J. H. R. Molson were announced. 

In the observatory the time and meteorological 
observations were continued, and students were trained 
in the work of observing. A photoheliograph has been 
purchased, and observations of the sun with its aid 
were to be commenced in spring. 

A report was also presented by the principal of the 
McGill Normal school on its condition and progress. 

A report was made on the new chemical laboratories, 
and on the munificent donation of Mr. W. C. McDonald 
for fitting up the laboratory for quantitative analysis 
at a cost of over $2,000. These laboratories are now 

the best in the country. # . , 

Reports received from Morrin and St. Francis col- 
leges, and reports of committees on the regulations of 
the professional coun&ils bearing on the previleges of 
the university ; and also on plan for co-operation with 
the council of public instruction in the examinations 
of academy pupils for the title of associate m arts. 
These reports were adopted and authority given o 
carrv out their recommendations. 

An elaborate report to the visitor on the history 
of the university in the past year, prepared by the 
principal, was read and adopted, and will be printed 
with the statement of accounts. 



98 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1887. 



Societies. 



The McGill Medical Society met in their rooms, at 
the College, on Saturday, January 15th, at 7.30 p.m., 
Dr. James Stewart, President, in the chair. 

The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting, 
which were adopted. 

Mr. E. J. Evans, on account of other engagements, 
handed in his resignation as Pathologist. On motion, 
Mr. A. E. Orr was appointed for the remaining por- 
tion of the session, Pathologist. 

Mr. D. L. Ross read a short case report. 

Mr. 0. H. Hubbard read a paper on Opium Habit. 
He stated that more were addicted to the use of Opium 
than was generally supposed, on account of the very 
skilful manner in which they concealed the fact. 
The habit was usually contracted through the use of 
the drug, either for its stimulating effect, or for the 
relief of pain, and they were soon obliged to take 
enormous quantities to satisfy their cravings. 

The effects upon the body, nervous system, and es- 
pecially upon the mental and moral faculties, were then 
taken up, after which the various modes of treatment 
were discussed. 

At the next meeting there will be a paper read by 
Dr. Stewart, and also a surgical report by Mr. E. J. 
Evans. 



UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY. 

This Society’s meetings have been rather irregular 
the last few weeks, and the officers will have to make 
an effort to keep up the interest. There should have 
been no difficulty in holding a successful dinner on 
the day decided upon, and we hope that another date 
will be fixed in the immediate future, and that as 
enthusiastic a dinner as that of last year will crown 
the Committee’s work. 



UNDERGRADUATES’ LITERARY SOCIETY. 

At the regular meeting of this society, on January 
14th, Mr. Quimby opened the programme with a read- 
ing. Mr. C. B. Kingston led off on the question, 
Resolved that the freedom of the press should be 
more limited than it is : ” his speech was full of in- 
formation. Mr. Gerrie opened the negative side. 
Messrs. McPhail and England, then spoke, and Messrs! 
Kingston and Gerrie closed their respective sides. The 
negative side carried. Mr. S. R. Brown then gave a 
capital reading. Mr. Charters read his criticisms, and 
the meeting adjourned with a song. 

At a meeting of this society on Friday, January 21st, 
there was considerable discussion in regard to Inter- 
collegiate Debates. The programme was opened by 
singing Song 7, Mr. II. E. C. Mason acting at the 
piano. Mr. Garth read an easy on “ A Great Man ” 
taking as his subject Gen. Garfield ; he sketched rapidly 
and m a most interesting manner this most wonderful 
life, holding it up as a model for students 
Mr H. Pedley ied off the debate on the question, 
Resolved that the revolt of the American Colonies 
has been beneficial to England : ” there was want of 



matter in his remarks, though his fluency of words 
may partly counterbalance this defect. Mr. W. A. 
Duke, in a spirited speech, combining both matter and 
delivery, opened the negative side. Then Messrs. 
Rogers, Quimby, McDougall, and McVicar, spoke : 
and Messrs. Pedley and Duke closed the argument for 
their respective sides. Partly owing to prejudice, but 
evidently somewhat in accordance with the weight of 
evidence, and quality of oratory, the society decided 
in favour of the Negative. 

J. K. Unsworth, B. A., and Francis Topp, B.A.,who 
were guests on the platform, were asked to address 
the meeting. ‘ The Constitutional Lawyer ’ was ener- 
getically made welcome. Mr. F. Macallum read his 
criticism. Notice was then given by Mr. A. P. Murray 
that motion would be made to reduce the length of the 
speeches. At various stages in the programme songs 
were interspersed, and the meeting broke up with 
another song. 

Personals. 



Dr. John Graham, ’86, has returned from London, 
where he has taken the degree L.S.A. 

Mr. W. H. Turner, B.A., has left for the Ancient 
Capital, to look after the legislators this session. 

We regret to say that Dr. Roddick has been indis- 
posed for some time, and his lectures have been con- 
sequently interrupted, much to the disappointment of 
Meds., among whom he is a general favourite. 

We regret to say that Mr. J. Ralph Murray, one of 
our associate editors, has left the city for a winter’s 
sojourn in Florida, for the benefit of his health. Mr. 
Murray has been on the Gazette staff for several years ; 
while an undergraduate he was one of our most 
energetic and useful editors, and since his graduation 
he has, as one of the stock holders’ editors, always 
taken a d§ep interest in the Gazette. We shall miss 
him on the Board, but hope to welcome him in the 
spring, hale and hearty. 



Between the Lectures. 



A three-year-old discovered the neighbor’s hens in 
her yard scratching. In a most indignant tone she 
reported to her mother that Mrs. Smith’s hens were 
“ wiping their feet on our grass.” 

She : And do you love me, George ? 

He (a medical student) : Yes, from my sixth left rib. 

She : Sir ! 

He : I mean, my dear, from the bottom of my heart. 

Scrap of conversation between two ladies overheard 
on a street car, a few mornings since : “ So George 

is at McGill now 1 ” “ Oh, yes ; this is his second 

year, you know ; he has just entered the sycamore 
class.” 

“ Patrick, you told me you needed the alcohol to 
clean the mirrors with, and here I find you drinking 
it.” 

“ Faith, mum, it’s a drinkin’ it and brathing on the 
glass O’im a-doin’.” 



1887 .] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



99 



Old Lady (suffering from hiccoughs, to drug clerk) 
Young man, I want to get some liquor 

Clerk (hastily) — Can’t do it, madam. You’ve had 
enough alrea • 

Old Lady (frigidly) — Some licorice. 

“ We propose having a game supper at our church 
next week,” exclaimed a young lady to a medical 
student last night ; “ now, what kind of game would 
you recommend.” “ Well, if you want to draw all the 
boys, suppose you try poker,” calmly replied Joseph 
Pickle. 

Brown — You are looking well, Robinson. 

Robinson — Yes, and feeling well ; but nevertheless 
I lost 120 pounds of flesh last month. 

Brown — That’s not possible ! 

Robinson — Yes it is. My wife ran off with a Sunday 
school superintendent. 

Omaha Man — “I see there is a great demand in the 
East for the coinage of half cents.” 

Eastern Stranger — “Good gracious ! When did that 

start up 1 ” 

“Some weeks ago, I believe.” 

“ My ! my ! I must hurry home and use my influ- 
ence against it. That will never do.”, 

“ Are you a member of Congress 1 ” 

“ No, I’m a clergyman.” 

Tom Anjerrv, a student at this University, met 
Solomon Levi of Chatham street, to whom he has been 
indebted for a long time in quite a large sum of money. 
Solomon, expecting to be paid, said in a loud, hearty 

tone of voice — „ 

“Ah! Mishter Ansherry, how glad I vas ter see you ! 

“ Beg your pardon, but the pleasure is entirely on 
my side. I’m not going to pay a blamed cent,” replied 
Anjerry, as he raised his hat, which was bought from 
Solomon on credit, and passed on. 



College TiUorlb. 



The female students of Bryn Mawr have decided to 
wear the Oxford cap and gown. 

Herr Paul Ritter has bequeathed $75,000 to the 
University of Jena to found a chair of Darwinian 
Philosophy. 

Maharanee Surnomoyce, a generous la( ty 

in Calcutta, has given $75,000 to found a hall of resi- 
dence for native women students of medicine. e 
government has contributed ground lor the building. 

The most heavily endowed educational institutions 
in the United States are : Girard College, $10,000,000 , 
Columbia, $5,000,000; John Hopkins, $4,000 000 , 
Harvard, $3,000,000 ; Princeton, $3,500,000 , Leln 0 h, 
$1,800,000; Cornell, $1,400,000. 

Miss Mead and Miss Littlewood, two Scotch women, 
have just obtained the triple qualification of the con- 
joint Colleges of Physicians and Surgeons o 1 
burgh and Glasgow. This is the first tune that women 
have been placed on the Medical Register by a Scottish 
diploma. 



Miss Ethel Jones has passed highest in English at 
the Liverpool Centre of the Oxford and Cambridge 
examinations, and is also the fifth in all England. 
Miss Harriet Hill was the highest junior in religious 
knowledge, and the fourth in England in English, and 
she has also gained the Wilson Scholarship. 

We notice with pleasure a decided improvement in 
the appearance of our unpretentious contemporary the 
Bishop's College Medical Gazette ; to use a metaphor 
of a kind dear to this little sheet, we might say that 
the blister lately applied to it by us, has drawn it out. 

A society recently organized in a young ladies’ col- 
lege not far from Boston is, according to the opening 
sentence in its constitution, “ Organized for the pur- 
pose of having a good time.” It ought to have a 
successful career. We would like to be initiated. 

Ten per cent, of the students in the University of 
Zurich are women. Twenty-nine of them are study- 
ing medicine, fourteen philosophy, and two political 
economy. There are now 48 female students of medi- 
cine in London, and in Paris 103. Within the last 
seven years eighteen women have taken a medical 
degree in Paris. 

President Dwight, of Yale, is said to have a pre- 
judice against going to bed for the night without tak 
ing a long walk. His usual habit is to sit until 1 0 or 
11° o’clock poring over his books or driving his pen, 
and then tramp across New Haven’s old green and 
through the deserted streets of the toAvn. He finds a 
Avalk the best thing in the ivorld to induce sleep after 
study. ______________ 

tkorresponbence. 

To the Editors University Gazette. 

Dear Sirs, — I beg to call attention to a mistake in 
the report of the meeting of the Undergraduates’ 
Literary Society, Avhich was published in your fourth 
issue. I thought it would have been corrected in the 
last issue, or I should have noticed it before. It is 
stated in the report that Messrs. Fry and Davidson 
failed to put in an appearance at the debate, and the 
Avriter goes on, in a burst of righteous indignation, to 
anathematize Messrs. Fry and Davidson, in particular, 
and all members, generally, Avho spoil the meetings by 
not turning up. Now, I fully endorse all the writer 
says about this matter of members not turning up, 
and not preparing their debates, but in this case 
denunciation Avas uncalled for. Their Avas a particu- 
larly <TOod attendance at this, as there has been at most 
of our meetings this session, and Messrs. Fry and 
Davidson not only turned up, but elicited special 
praise for the careful way in which they had prepared 
their subject, and for the success of their virgin efforts. 
Such being the true circumstances, avo can only con- 
clude that the writer, who was so eloquent in denounc- 
ing the delinquents, Avas himself absent from the 



° 

meeting. 



Yours etc. 



R. B. Henderson. 



Montreal, January 3rd, 1887. 



100 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1886. 



Note. — No one regrets such a mistake more than 
the Editor who wrote the report. At the first meet- 
ing of the society after the publication of the report, 
he apologised to the gentlemen implicated. However, 
he is very glad to have this opportunity of giving 
more publicity to the correction of the error. — Eds. 



THE IMTOTDiEIR/ILT 

Turkish or Roman Bath, 

140 ST. MONIQUE STREET, 

* 

Foot of McGill College Avenue, MONTREAL. 

Established, 1869. Eebuilt and Enlarged, 1873. 
Renovated and Improved, 1884. 

BATHING HOURS: 

GENTLEMEN, - - - 6 to 8 a.m. 2 to 9 p.m. 

LADIES, 10 to 12 noon, Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. 

Apart from one of the most complete and best constructed 
Turkish Baths on this Continent, the Institute affords every 
facility for the administration of all forms of “Hydro-Thera- 
peutic ” treatment as well as for the practice of the “ Swedish 
Movement Cure,” and of Massage. 

Accommodation is provided for a limited number of resident 
patients. Special attention being devoted to the treatment of 
cluonic cases. Convalescents, as well as others who are interest- 
ed in health matters, will find at this Institution a quiet and 
comfortable home, and many advantages not obtainable else- 
where in the Dominion. 

D. B, A. MACBEAN. M.D., Proprietor, 



R. GARDNER * SON, 

— MANUFACTURERS OF — 




BAKERS’ and CONFECTIONERS’ MACHINERY, 

Reel Ovens, Turning Lathes, Shafting, 

HANGERS and PULLEYS, 



A SPECIALTY. 

NOVELTY IRON WORKS#-*- 

40 to 54 Nazareth, Brennan, and Dalhousie Streets. 

BlTIslFi BROS., 

CONFECTIONERS, 

Cor. St. Catherine and Victoria Sts. 

OTSTEKS -A-T -A-XjIj HOXTESS. 

Fine Candies and Confectionery. 

Established 1859. 

Henet- IE5. 

COEXIST. 

144 St. Lawrence Main Street, 

MONTREAL. 

The Dispensing of Physicians’ Prescriptions a Specialty. 

Physician s, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers sup- 
plied with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 



CRIDIFORD & ROBERTSON, 

ENGINEERS AND MILLWRIGHTS, 

25 Bleury Street, MONTREAL. 



— MANUFACTURERS OF 

Shafting, Hangers, Pulleys, Dies, Models and General 
Machinery. Also, Punching Presses, Bookbinders’ 
Tools, Warehouse Hoists, Etc., 

YACHTS and. ENGINES. 



ROBERTSON’S PATENT UNITRIPLE ENGIN 

SAVES ONE-FOURTH OF FUEL, 



THE HENDERSON LUMBER Cl 

Capital Paid-up - - $100,000.00 

Directors: D. H. Henderson, Norman Henderson 

Chas. H. Walters. 

Saxo Mills : ROXTON FALLS, P.Q., and 342 to 380 WILLIAM 
Branch Yard: 130 S T. CONSTANT ST., MONTREAL 

.Ha it ii fact urers and General Dealers In every B 
criptlon of Lumber and Timber. 



Good Quality and Low Prices. 

A full supply of the Celebrated CROSS STYLO PENS kept in Stock 

E-rrery pen gr\a.a.rsi 2 nteea.. 

E. GEAFTO 3ST Sz SOOSTS, 

252 St. James Street. 

S. J. BRISSETTE. JOS. COURTOIS. 

BRISSETTE & COURTOIS, 



White's Lane, 




— MANUFACTURERS OF — 

Machinery for Paper Makers, Paper Box Manufacturers, 



<-B00K BINDERS and PRINTERS.** 

— * 

Special attention given to Repairing and Setting-up Machinery. 

SPECIAL TOOLS and MACHINES for MANUFACTURERS 

J>e*i ar noa and Unlit to Order. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Corner 

McGill 

and 

Notre Dame 

Streets 





VS JoT^ 0 ^ 

MONTREAL) 



& 



V 



CLOTHIER 



Corner 

McGill 

and 

Notre Dame 

Streets. 



-»-* SEAZX^trAUXBRS IW TSE OXTT #-*- 



FOR 



Overcoats, Suits, and Gents' Underwear. 

l^ai^ejcst Stocfi iti Canada to Select frotfi/ 

SuitSaelOvercoats Made to Order, American Styles. 

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 

buy your 

Boots and Shoes, 

RUBBERS, OVERSHOES i MOCCASINS 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

Shoe Stores. 




UP TOWN : QUEEN'S HALL BLOCK, 

1331 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St, , cor, of Craig St. 

ffinc Confectionery, 

R oNBQNS and C HOCOLATES 



artistically 



•’UEN GRAVED AND PRINTED,*- 



— IN — 



BELIEF, CAMEO or PLAIN. 






PHILIPS SQUARE, 



1 



JIONTBliAL. 



STAINING FLUIDS “? lonnlin! Lipifls 

—FOR— 

Histological and Microscope work, 

PRFPARED BY 

W. H. CHAPMAN, Ph. C., Central Drug Store, 

Corner Craig and Bleury Streets. 



The Burl and Litho. Co., 



5, 7 & 9 Bleury Street, 



MONTREAL, 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, Guerin & Greenshields, 

.A.X 2 T 7 - OCATES, 

Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, &c,, 

Chambers : Exchange Bank Building, 

1728 NOTRE DAME STREET, • MONTREAL. 

J.N. Greenshields. Edmond Guerin. R.A. E. Greenshields. 

ROBERTSON, FLEET k FALCONER, 

AOVOCATES, 

157 ST. JAME S STREET 



Hair Dressing Palace. 

— THE LARGEST ASSORTMENT OF — 

8iu$l\e$, Corahs', f^k^oi^, $tToj>& 
Peifurrieiy, kr\d Toilet 
Sttidle^. 

1743 & 1745 NOTEE DAME ST. 



Atwater & Mackie, 

Advocates, Barristers, Commissioners, k, 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 St. James St., Montreal. 

Iacmaster, Hutchinson, Weir & McLennan, 

ADVOCATES, 

BARRISTERS, solicitors, &c., 

175 St. James St., Montreal. 

DONALD MACMASTER, Q. C. R. S. WEIR, B.C.L. 

M. HUTCHINSON, B.C.L. F. S. McLENNAN, B.C.L. 

Church, Chapleau, Hall & Nicolls, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Commissioners, &c., 

147 ST. JAMES ST., MONTREAL. 

Hon. L. RUGGLES CHURCH, Q.C. JOHN S. HALL. Jr. 

Hou. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. ARMINE D. NICOLLS. 

A. PEEIARD, 

Law Bookseller, Publisher, Importer & Legal Stationer, 

23 ST. ST., 

(near the court house,) 





THE 

GEORGE BISHOP 

(fngraving ^ Printing 

s 

(tompany. 

169 & 167 ST. JAMES ST , MONTREAL. 



Invitations, GaFds, Crests, programmes 
J^IonogFams, &c., &c. 

IN THE LATEST STYLES. 




BI CYCLES ! ! 

Lawn Tennis Sets, Foot 
Balls, Boxing Gloves, 
Fencing Foils, 
Masks, &e, 

Also, Prizes of all Descriptions. 



Wedding, Christmas and Birthday Presents, Fancy 
Goods, Electro Plate, &c. 




W A.TBQJI «5c, PEI*TQHT„ 

53 ST. SULPICE STREET. 



Hairdressing; and Shaving; in tie Latest Style, 

QUEEN'S BLOCK. 



R. SHARPLEY & SONS, 

eJEWELiLiEI^Y ^ FANGY GOODS. 

every description of 

FINE GOLD AND SILVER JEWELLERY. 



— We make a Specialty of — 

FINE CHRONOGRAPH (OR TIMING) WATCHES 



Ml cl LOW 



r igure. 



A SILVER WARE, CLOCKS, BRONZES, and 

EANC 1 GOODS, suitable for IVedding Gifts or Presentations. 



OUT-DOOR GAMES. 

All the requisites for Foot Ball, Lawn Tennis, and Cricket. 

M L ALSO 

Mathematical Instruments, Drawing Papers, Colors, etc., etc., 
1678 & 1680 NOTRE DAME ST. 




university gazette. 



E. & c. GURNEY & CO. 

3S5 <Sc 3S7 ST. Paoi Stbebt. 

Wholesale Manufacturers 

HotAir Furnaces 



STOVES, 

GRATES, 

RANGES, 

SCALES. 



GURNEY’S 



E eihmteo Hot Water Heaters 



— AND — 



Cast Biij Balialors. 



JOHN CRILLY & CO., 

Paper Manufacturers, { 




—FOR— 



Goal op Wood. 



All Goods Guaranteed. 



Circulars on Application. 



385 & 387 

St. Paul Street, 

MONTREAL. 



MILLS AT 
JOHETTE, P. Q. 



— MANUFACTURERS OF — 



Blotting Paper, 

Toned Paper, 

Colored Paper, 

White Paper. 

Flour Sack Par 



Hanging Paper, 
Brown Paper, 
Grey Paper 
St 



traw Paper, 

Building Paper, 

Carpet Felt, 



^ 'aper, 

Manilla Paper, I 

Roofing Felt. 

Special Sizes siaa-cL "Weights cle to Order. 

TWINES OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS. 

Manufacturers and Printers of Paper Bags and Flour Sacks. 
Price Lists and Discounts on Application . 

Warehouse : 389 ST. PAUL STREET, 

MONTREAL. 



MILLS AT 
PORTNEUF. 



NEW Mil PAPER CO. 

Office and Warehouse: Nun’s Building, 

21 and 23 DeBreso les Street, Montreal. 

MANUFACTURERS OF 

KEffS, MANILLA, BROWN, GREY AND STRAW WRAPPINGS 

also Hanging, Sheeting and Roofing Papers and Card Middles. 




WORKS AT 
u J, CORNWALL, ONT 
CAPITiLL, - $250,000- 

MANUFACTURES THE FOLLOWING GRADES OF PAPER : 

Engine Sized Superfine Papers, White and Tinted Book Papers, (Machine 
Finished and Super-calendered), Blue and Cream Laid & Wove Foolscaps, 
Posts, etc., etc., Account Book Papers, Envelope and Lithographic Papers. 
Coloured Cover Papers Superfinlshed. 

Apply at the mill for samples and prices. Special sizes made to order. 



SHARPE’S EXPRESS CO. 



297 ST. JAMES ST., 
MONTREAL. 

Cartage Agents for South Eastern Railway. 

Freight and Parcels Called For and Delivered in any Part of tie City. 

Particular attention Paid to moving Furniture,, Pianos, &c. 

T eams furnished to Parties going to the Country. Telephone No. 738. 
SHARPE & WALTERS, PROPRIETORS. 

Fresh Groceries I 

Our Fall Supplies of GROCERIES and PROVISIONS are to hand, 
and we invite inspection. 

Teas, Coffees, and Provisions 

ARE AMONC OUR SPECIALTIES. 

DAVID CRAWFORD, General Grocer, 



ITALIAN WAREHOUSE, 

173 St James Street, 

Telephone No. 139L 



“ QUEEN’S BLOCK,” , 

1315 and 1317 St. Catherine St. 

Telephone No. 1392. 



Beuthner Bros., 

Jmporlars nnb ffmmfnriurirs* Jlgenk, 

821 CRAIG STREET, 821 

MONTREAL. 

EXgBE/TH, 

IMPORTER OF 

■MtHAVANA CIGAKS 

Briar and Meerschaum Pipes, 

SULTANS, KHEDIVES AND BEYS EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES IN BOXES OF 25. 

Try StTJLd.eio.ts l^rijctu-re. 

Paces and other Cut Plugs from $ 1.00 upwards. 

1323 ST. CATHERINE STREET, Queen’s Block. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



W. & F. P. CURRIE & CO., 



THE GENUINE 

COOK’S Fl&I EInTHD 
BAKING POWDER 

Is the BEST VALUE in the market, is made from 
the PUREST INGREDIENTS, gives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to the user, and should be pre- 
ferred by all oareful housekeepers. Retailed 
everywhere. 



lOO GREY IN XJ IN STREET. 
IMPORTERS OF 

SCOTCH GLAZED DRAIN PIPES, 

Chimney Tops, Roman Cement, 

Vent Linings, Canada Cement, 

, Flue Covers, Water Lime, 

Fire Bricks, Whiting, 

Fire Clay, Plaster Paris, 

Portland Cement, Borax, 

CHIlTiL CX J -£u _ 2\ <Stc., <Sec. 
Manufacturers of 

BESSEMER STEEL SOFA, CHAIR & BED SPRINGS. 

A LARCE STOCK ALWAYS ON HAND. 



AntiseDtic Materials, Banians, Etc, 

MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 

W. A. DYER & CO., 
Pharmaceutical & Dispsii Chemists, 

14 & 16 Phillips Square, Cor. St. Catherine St., 

MONTREAL. 

Bandages, Roller, Muslin. 

Bandages, Cotton. 

Bandages, Absorbent. 

Bandages. Antiseptic Gauze. 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent. 

Cotton Wool, Borated. 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated. 

Cotton Wool, Sublimated 
Drainage Tubes. Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent. 

Gauze, Borated. 

Gauze, Carbolized. 

Gauze, Eucalyptol. 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze, Naphthalin. 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percba Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill ; Inhalers, Celluloid 

Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached. 

Jute, Absorbent. 

Jute, Carbolized. 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels ; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes ; 
Sponges, Antiseptic ; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain ; Sponges. 
Gamgee’s Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies*. 



C. ASHFORD’S 

Cheap Book, Stationery, 




MEDICAL BOOKS, 



TELEPHONE No. 580. 



Montreal Steam Laundry Co., 

(LIMITED,) 

21, 2R & 23 St. Antoine Street MONTREAL 

T. H. LOVE. Managing Director. 

Our Laundry having been Refitted with the Latest and Most Im- 
proved Machinery, we are now prepared to offer special inducements to 

Families, Hotels, Steamships and Public Institutions, 

for the Washing and Finishing of Goods. Particular attention given to the 
Washing and Dressing of Goods for Shirt and Collar Manufacturers. 
Goods damaged by Water Cleaned and Re-finished to look equal to new. 
Lace and other Fine Work carefully Cleansed and Finished. No Chem- 
icals Used and Goods less roughly handled than by the ordinary hand 
work. Special Contracts made, and Tenders for work furnished on 
application. 

GOODS CALLED FOR AND DELIVERED FREE OF CHARGE. 



FUR SEASON 1886-7. 

My show room is now open, wherein will be found a LAR^E and 
WELL ASSORTED STOCK of MANUFACTURED FURS, to whbh 
I invite special attention. 

Also a Large Assortment of the Latest Fall Shapes in 

Silk: Fijr, ZEF^ts 

FROM 

LINCOLN, BENNETT & CO., WOODROW, CHRISTY, 

and other English makers. 

IMI. SAMUEL, 

H ATTER AND FuRRIER, 

1751 Notre Dame St. 



•»$ PHOTOGRAPHY 

For CABINET PHOTOS., go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES Sc WALFORE’S. 



Students' Note Books, Dissecting Cases & Scalpels, 

[BY WEISS & SON"], 

CHEAP FOR CASH. 

Books procured to. order from England & the United States 

816 AND 818 DORCHESTER ST., 

MONTH AL. 



For COMPOSITION OF GROUPS, go to 

SEMMERHAYES Sc WALFCRL’S. 

For all kinds of PHOTOGRAPHY, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD'S, 

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleury Street . 



