jVo. 1 !• 



v 0 r. ix. 



McGILL 

UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 

Wednesday , March 17 , 1886 . 



CONTENTS : 



PAGE. 

Editorials - - - - - 3-5 

Poetry 5-9 

Contributions 5-8 

McGill News 9-10 



PAGE. 

Societies 10-12 

Correspondence 12-13 

College World - 13 

Between the Lectures - - - 13-14 



MONTREAL : 

printed by the burland lithographic company. 



1886 . 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, McCorkill, Guerin & GreensMelis, 

ADVOCATES, 

Jiarmlars, jltiornsip, jlolmlors, 

Chambers : Exchange Bank Building, 

1724 NOTRE DAME STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

J. N. Greenshields. J. C. McCorkill. Edmond Guerin. R. A. E. Greenshields. 


HEADQUARTERS 

—FOR— 

V "i ? 7 v + 

DRYSDALE’S 

232 ST. CT_A_1K<EIES ST. 


RoMon, Ici, Fleet & Falconer, 

ADVOCATES, 

% 

151 St. Ta.rri.es Street, 

J£OXTTH.;EA£r- 


AIEIIICAL WORKS, BOOKS USEE IJ>T ART COURSE , 
SCIEJVCE TEXT BOOKS , 

THE VARIOUS iUEOLOGICAL BOOKS . 

Full assortment in stock & supplied at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books, Ac., Ac., 
-^FBEST V\A.XjTT:E 1 1ST TOWISTi-^ 

Stylographic Pens , Anti- Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty . 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 
232 St. Tarcics Street, 

ALSO 

Branch Store : 1423 St. .Catherine St. 


ATWATER & CROSS, 
^.flvocate^ ^arri&er^ fjommi^ioner^ Sfe., 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 ST. JAMES STREET. 

MONTREAL. 


BUY YOUR 

Boots and Shoes, 

RUBBERS, OVERSHOES & MOCCASINS 

— AT — 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

Shoe Stores. 

UP TOWN : QUEEN'S HALL BLOCK, 

1331 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 


MACMASTER, HUTCHINSON & WEIR, 

ADVOCATES, 

Jtoristers, J» 0 licitor$ r & t. t 

175 ST. JAMES STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

DONALD MACMASTER, Q.C. R. S. WEIR, B.C.L 

M. HUTCHINSON, B.C.L. F. S. McLENNAN, B.C.L 


A.. PEEIAHD, 

Law Bookseller. Publisher. Importer 

And Legal Stationer, 

23 ST. JAMES STREET, 

(near the court house,) 

MOITTEEAL. 


JOHN HENDERSON & CO., 

Hatters^Furriers, 

1677 Jfcire Dame 3i. 

m COATS, CAPS and GAUNTLETS, 

Extra Quality Goods at Lowest Gash Prices. 

Tlie “ McGILL ” Ribbon for Sale. 


I. B. DUROCHER, Proprietor. 

Jacques Cartier Square, opp, Court House & City Hall, 

MONTREAL. 

THE ABOVE HOTEL it the BEST IN THE CITT for McBILL OOLLESE DINNE8S. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Vol. ix.] mcgill college, Montreal, march it™, 1886. [No. 11 . 




DIRECTORS. — Jeffrey H. Burland, B. Ap. Sc., 
F. C. S., President ; Edgar De F. Holden, Vice-President; 
Geo. C. Wright, B.A., Sec.-Treas. Committee: — Charles 
W. Ho are ; W. A. Carlyle, Science *87; Fred. W. Hibbard, 
Arts 86 ; E. P. Williams, Med. *87. 

EDITORS. — J. Ralph Murray, B. A., Law ’86; 
Raleigh J. Elliot, Law ’86 ; Arthur Weir, Science ’86 ; 
Ed. Evans, Med. f 87 ; C. Percy Brown, Science ’86 ; W. 
Inglis Bradley, B. A., Med. ’87 ; Alfred P. Murray, 
Arts ’87. 

* The University Gazette will be published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which 
rule no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

All communications may be addressed to the Editors, P. 0. 
Box 1290. 



Ebitorials. 



AN APOLOGY. 

Mr. Murray, who since our last number has resigned 
the Managing-Editorship, desires to makes an apology 
for the publication of the article headed “ Prof. C. H. 
McLeod,” in the last issue. The accusations .therein 
contained have been shown to be unfounded, and the 
writer wishes to express his regret that he did not ex- 
amine carefully into the truth of the rumors which 
gave rise to the article, before publishing it. We may 
’add that, owing to the circumstances under which the 
article appeared in our editorial columns, Mr. Murray 
has assumed the responsibility of the article in ques- 
tion. 



We have referred in a previous number of the 
Gazette to the praiseworthy conduct of the Arts and 
Science classes of ’85, in presenting a sum of money to 
the College, as a parting and substantial evidence of 
their goodwill, and we took occasion to suggest the 
propriety of future graduating classes repeating this 
action. From the report of the Library Committee, 
attached to the Annual Univeisity Report tp the 
Governor-General, it will be seen in what way the 



matter has been recognized. “A pleasing illustration,” 
says the report, “ of the appreciation by the students 
of the value of the Library, is furnished by the fact 
that the graduating classes of 1885 in the Faculties of 
Arts and Applied Science have subscribed the sum of 
$31 which they wish to be used for the Library, either 
for the binding of magazines, or otherwise, as the 
Library Committee may see fit. Your Committee re- 
gard this considerate gift as deserving special recogni- 
tion from the Corporation, and they accordingly 
recommend that a special vote of thanks be tendered 
by the Corporation to the donors. ” 

The idea was deserving of some acknowledgment, 
and the warm manner in which the presentation has 
been received will certainly stimulate others to go and 
do likewise, or be considered less generous and public 
spirited than their predecessors. If a proper desire to 
surpass previous efforts should display itself, and a 
larger sum be raised, we imagine that the College will 
be none the worse off, nor will the reputation of the 
classes which so resolve, suffer any injury. 



“ THE WORK THAT I CAME HERE TO DO 
IS DONE.” 

In the case of a numerous body of our subscribers 
this will be the last number of the Gazette which 
they will receive as Undergraduates. Before our next 
issue the Graduating Class in Medicine will have said 
good-bye to “ Dear old McGill,” and gone forth upon 
the world. They will be scattered far and wide, — 
some beyond the Rockies and in the frigid north, 
some on the Atlantic's shore, and some in the far 
south , while others of them go to the medical schools 
of the old world to further prosecute their studies. 
Wherever they go, and for all time, we feel assured, 
they will cherish a fond regard for their Alma Mater ; 
and ever think with gratitude of her professors who 
so unsparingly lavished their best energies in perfect- 
ing them in their profession. 

The class is composed of a lot of jolly good fellows ; 
and throughout their course they have manfully and 
unitedly worked for their own interests and for those 
of the college. They go forth proud of their profes- 
sion, and their profession proud of them. The 
Gazette joins with the undergraduates in wishing the 
Medical Class of ’86 every success and prosperity. 



4 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE- 



[1886, 



THE GYMNASIUM. 

In another column will be found a notice of the 
Wicksteed Medals competitions, with a list of entries. 
These medals we all know are offered, not to compe- 
ting clubs, but for excellence in gymnastic skill. 
McGill has always been famed for its sporting tastes, 
and the Gazette as the organ of the students is seldom 
without its sporting item or editorial. But while foot- 
ball, hockey and tennis have always forced themselves 
into notice, there is a no less important athletic depart- 
ment which might be called the silent sister of these : 
we mean the Gymnasium. The campus and the rink 
are splendid training grounds, but there is one class of 
students they cannot reach, namely, that comprising 
weakly or very studious men. The fascinations of 
hockey and football are hard to resist : they are mis- 
tresses who demand our whole attention. Further, 
they require of their lovers no small amount of phy- 
sical strength at the outset. The Gymnasium, on the 
contrary, can be attended profitably and with pleasure 
by the weakest, and demands but little of his time so 
that there is no excuse for not attending it. 

That it is advantageous to exercise the body needs 
no argument. If there is not sound health, or at least 
a strong constitution, it is vain to attempt to win suc- 
cess in any sphere of life, or if success be won it is far 
less than might have been. How differently Carlyle 
might have looked on his fellow-men if he had not 
been dyspeptic. His harsh invectives, penned in 
harsher and involved language, might have become 
softened if he had not had that continual gnawing at 
his vitals. Pope's little lapses of memory as regards 
contemporary merit, his satires upon his dearest 
friends, even his hypochondriacal envy may all be 
explained by the one word “ sickness." On the other 
hand consider Dickens’ works, and you will find no 
harshness there. He was a man who timed his work 
and walk, and was exceptionally healthy. So with 
Bryant, who used to walk some miles to his office 
every day, and often indulged in gymnastic exercise 
when there ; we find no hate in his verses even if, as 
Miss Cleveland says, they are only readable by a fire- 
side, so chilly they are. 

To those students who are not able or inclined to 
indulge in the rougher sports we say : By all means 
put in some hours a week at the gymnasium, and you 
will find your mind clearer and your bodies stronger 
by the work. 

THE DINNER QUESTION. 

Perhaps the most important question that meets 
the students as a whole is this one of an Annual Din- 



ner. The evening of the “ dinner ” is almost the only 
time devoted entirely to social intercourse, at least 
among the more studious. This, coupled with the 
desirability of abundant intercourse outside of the 
class-room, has hitherto given a fair amount of success 
to these gatherings. In view of the success of the 
dinners of the past, it would not be amiss to notice, 
before the session closes, some improvements that are 
called for, not merely by reason of the development 
of the custom itself, but also on account of various 
changes that have lately taken place in the college. 
In order to the better understanding of the position 
that is occupied by the dinner, the past may profitably 
be examined ; and, as an example, take the history of 
the Arts dinners. In the early years, after the cus- 
tom of an annual dinner was instituted, each class 
held its own. This was found to be unsatisfactory for 
several reasons. In the first place, the gathering was 
but small, and composed of men who met one another 
every day ; moreover, on account of the small number 
of tickets, the rates were high and the entertainment 
on a humbler scale than is now the case Three years 
ago, these reasons led to the trial of a Faculty Dinner ; 
and the first was a great success. This year the Gov- 
ernors and Professors of the Faculty were also pre- 
sent ; and this new departure likewise was very suc- 
cessful. Such, with various modifications, has been 
the history of the custom in the other Faculties. The 
history of them all shows a gradual and steady increase 
in size and importance. Now it is to be decided 
whether the custom has fully developed, or has yet 
higher stages to reach. We would say that nothing 
points to its having reached a maximum point of im- 
portance, but rather that there are many reasons why 
the Annual Dinner should be still more extensively 
patronized, and of a more general character. As the 
first gatherings were class dinners, and as these in- 
creased to Faculty dinners, and these to Faculty din- 
ners with both students and professors present, so the 
next step is to a University dinner. Then, indeed, 
would the McGill dinners be an event of some con- 
siderable importance. A University dinner would 
more properly be called a banquet, inasmuch as ladies 
would be present ; for, in addition to the large num- 
ber of the other sex now enrolled as students, and 
who may justly claim a part in a University gathering, 
we must consider the wives of the Governors, Profes- 
sors, and older graduates. The University Dinner, as 
the very name implies, would gather together the 
Chancellor and Governors, and their ladies, t)ie Prin- 
cipal and professors of the various Faculties and their 
ladies, the graduates and their ladies, and the under- 
graduates and students. Such a scheme— perfectly 



188f>.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



5 



feasible, however complicated it may appear, — would 
then be a credit to McGill. 

The idea has already been mooted privately among 
the students, and seems to receive much favor. At 
the Arts dinner of this year, it was referred to by both 
students and professors. Many efforts have been made 
to unite the Arts and Science dinners. Indeed, it is 
but natural that these two Faculties, whose studies 
are largely carried on in the same rooms, should unite 
in their social evenings. But what of Law ? The 
students of that profession are so far separated from 
the others ? This is the strongest reason for their 
meeting the members of the other Faculties. The 
present low state of this Faculty may have arisen 
from its isolated position. To the largest Faculty, 
Medicine, on which the success of a united dinner 
would largely depend, such p scheme offers merely the 
general advantages of intercourse with members of 
sister Faculties. 

Just as it was found possible to hold Faculty din- 
ners on a grander scale, and with less relative expense 
than class dinners, so the magnificence of a united 
banquet would be something unparalleled as yet in 
the Faculty dinners. But perhaps the most import- 
ant feature in favour of a University dinner, and that 
which appeals to the noblest feelings of every student 
and friend of McGill, is in the help such a gathering 
would give to the establishing of stronger bonds of 
union, and to the keeping up of a good esprit de corps , 
so that we might realize that “in unity is strength.” 



Poetry. 



HORM HOIIATIAN^E. 

HORACE— BOOK II., ODE III. 

Maintain an even-balanced mind. 

When Fortune frowns ; if fate be kind, 
Re not with pride uplifted high, 

For, Dellius, thou art doomed to die : 

Whether thy life hath all been sad. 

Or festal days have found thee glad, 
Couched on the turf, with cup in hand, 
Quaffing Falernum’s choicest brand. 

Where poplar pale, and soaring pine 
Their hospitable boughs entwine. 

And the swift streamlet toils along 
Its winding channel with a song, 

Thither let wine and perfumes rare 
Be brought, with roses frail but fair, 
While chance permits, ere youth be fled, 
Or the Three Sisters cut life’s thread. 

Thy woods, amassed on every side— 

Thy villa, washed by Tiber’s Tide— 

The heaped up treasures that are thine, 
These to an heir thou must resign- 

Kinsman to Inachus of old, 

Or beggar, shivering iu the cold, 

It matters nought— for thou must go 
To ruthless Pluto’s realm below. 

All flock to Hades : from the urn 
The lot of each leaps forth in turn: 

All in the same dark boat are sent 
To everlasting banishment. 



BOOK I-, ODE XXVII. 

O’er wine-cups destined for delight 
The savage Thracians love to fight— 

Such custom shun, my comrades all, 

For modest Bacchus nates a brawl. 

The Persian dagger ill contrasts 
With lamps, and wine, and gay repasts ; 

Pray, Friends, this hideous din restrain. 

And on your elbows rest again. 

M ust I, too, drink Falernian ? Well — 

Let Greek Megilla’sbrother tell 
Whose glances shot the fatal dart 
That blissfully transfixed his heart. 

What, silent ? Then no wine for me ! 

Whate’er thy charmer’s name may be. 

There needs no blush : for thine will prove 
A frank and honourable love. 

Out with the secret ! Whisper low : 

I’m dumb. Poor wretch ! and is it so? 

With what a Harpy dost thou mate, 

Boy, worthy of a better fate ! 

What witchcraft, what Thessalian charms, 

What God can snatch thee from her arms? 

Scarce Pegasus himself could thee 
From this three-formed Chimaera free 1 

BOOK I., ODE XXX. 

0 Cnidian, Paphian Queen ! awhile 

Thy darling Cyprus leave, and deign 
’Mid clouds of frankincense to smile 
On Glycera’s graceful fane. 

Bring thy flushed boy, and Mercury, 

The Graces, too, with loosened zones, 

The Nymphs, and Youth, who, reft of thee. 

Slight charm or beauty owns. 

Geo. Murray. 



(Contributions. 



REFUTATION OF GOLDSMITH’S CRITIQUE 
OF HAMLET’S SOLILOQUY. 



There is probably no passage in the whole com- 
pass of English literature from which quotations are 
so often made as this soliloquy of Hamlet. Dr. John- 
son speaks of it as a celebrated soliloquy , the epithet 
“ famous ” is often applied to it, and Goldsmith refers 
to it as that “ which we have so often heard extolled 
in terms of admiration.” 

To attract attention and impress the memory to 
such a degree as all this supposes implies that it has 
some peculiar excellence. How can so general a con- 
currence of opinion upon a subject of this nature be 
otherwise accounted for ] No other part of the 
writings of Shakespeare more needed the learning 
and sagacity of the commentators to elucidate its 
obscurities nor is there any other upon which they 
have thought it worth while to expend more time 
and labour. 

It is hard to say to what extent the criticism of 
Goldsmith has availed to bring this famous monologue 
into discredit; but as his productions have always 
been very popular, it cannot be doubted that his very 
unfavorable opinion of it must have been adopted by 
a multitude of his readers and admirers. Were his 
hostile criticism of it allowed to be correct, the better 
course in regard to it would be, to let it pass without 
notice as quite unworthy of Shakespeare or any other 
author of repute, but this is a consequent which no 
student of Shakespeare will readily admit and he may 



I 



6 McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. [18«6. 



therefore feel himself under the disagreeable necessity 
of endeavouring to refute objections so condemnatory ; 
only, Goldsmith’s objections are so numerous, for he 
worked upon his design with extraordinary vigour of 
determination, that to try to refute them all would be 
a task intolerably tedious : he may however confine 
himself to those that relate to the reasoning of Ham- 
let ; and these after all are alone worthy of serious 
notice and may perhaps be so presented that any one, 
on referring to the essay (XVI.) to save needless re- 
petition, can satisfy himself as to their validity or in- 
validity. 

“ The soliloquy in Hamlet, which we have so often heard ex- 
tolled in terms of admiration, is, in our opinion, a heap of absur- 
dities, whether we consider the situation, the sentiment, the 
argumentation or the poetiy * * * We shall see how far 

he argues like a philosopher. In order to support this general 
charge against an author, whose veiy errors have helped to 
sanctify his character among the multitude, we will descend to 
particulars and analyze this famous Soliloquy.” — Goldsmith. 

His first objection is based upon the following part 
of a sentence of the text : — 

“ Or to take arms against a sea of troubles 
And, by opposing, end them.”— S hakes. 

He says : “ The obvious and indeed the only mean- 
ing that can be implied in these words is ; — “ or exert 
his faculties in order to surmount it,” (misfortune). 

It is to be remarked that the sentence in the 
Soliloquy from which the above quotation is taken a* 
part of a restatement of the question — “ to be or not to 
be ” and that this part so restated is only a rhetorical or 
poetical amplification of the alternative — “ or not to 
be.” Goldsmith’s objection is based upon a complete 
misunderstanding of tjie question proposed and re- 
stated. He thus fabricates for Hamlet what there is 
no reason to believe ever entered his mind. The 
concept involved in the alternative — “ Non esse cur 
velis vivere ” is Suicide.. 

“ He (Hamlet) owns himself deterred from Suicide 
,! by the thoughts of what may follow death : 

— “ the dread of something after death— 

What undiscovered country from whose bourne 
No traveller returns” — Shakes. 

This might be a good argument in a heathen or Pagan, and such 
indeed Hamlet really was, but Shakespeare has already represent- 
ed him as a good catholic, who must have been acquainted with 
the truths of revealed religion, and 'says expressly in this play: 

—had not the Everlasting fix’d 
His canon ’gainst self-murder (lie) slaughter ” 

Moreover he had just been conversing with his father’s spirit 
piping hot from Purgatory.” — Goldsmith. 

The passage from the Soliloquy given by Gold- 
smith is produced by him as an instance of the incon- 
sistency or “ badness” of Shakespeare’s reasoning, as 
part of the “general charge” which he has under- 
taken to “ support.” He says, “ this might be a good 
argument in a heathen or Pagan, but : — ” But 

what ] It is to be observed that he is now proceeding 
to show that Hamlet’s reasoning is “bad” and it is 
interesting to mark the process by which he imagines 
he has attained his object. Now, all that follows 
“ but ” in this connection is an attempt to prove that 
Hamlet was a good Catholic or Christian. The whole 
of his proof consists in the assertion of this fact. He 
does nothing more. He is so careless of form in this 
case that he does not even affirm that Hamlet’s argument 



is “ bad ” but leaves the ellipsis— his favorite “ ergo” 
to be supplied by the reader. The ellipsis supplied, 
his argument is this “ This might be a good argu- 
ment in a heathen or Pagan but is a “ bad” argument 
in a Christian. This is all that proceeds from the 
promising “ but.” To apply his own language — 
“ this conclusion would justify the logician in saying, 
negatur consequens.” A mere assertion cannot be 
admitted as a substitute for proof when proof was 
that which it was undertaken to be given and this more 
especially when it was undertaken to show the fallacy 
of another person’s reasoning. 

Shakespeare has sometimes been charged with in- 
consistency, because, as it is alleged, Hamlet, who 
was a heathen, is represented as having the know- 
ledge and expressing the sentiments of a Christian 
and as an instance of this inconsistency the passage 
quoted has been adduced. 

Though it be wandering from our course and may 
render the march through a very dry country some- 
what longer than is necessary, the call to examine 
this charge is almost irresistible. 

It may be admitted at once that Hamlet is repre- 
sented by Shakespeare to be a Christian, to be ac- 
quainted with the truths of revealed religion and with 
the institutes and peculiar practices of the early 
church. How then, it is asked, could such a Christian 
as Hamlet speak of “ that undiscovered country from 
whose bourne no traveller returns” ? It may be said 
in answer, that the after-death state or country is un- 
discovered. Most theologians hold that it is a place 
and a place whose locality or position remains hitherto 
undetermined, i. e. } it is an undiscovered country, if 
country it may be called. 

Again, Hamlet says : — “ from whose bourne no 
traveller returns ” when he had just been conversing 
with his father’s spirit ” etc. It is to be remembered 
that Shakespeare in Hamlet’s monologue is speaking 
of men, of men’s thoughts, of their emotions and pas- 
sions and purposes. He says nothing of spirits and 
spirits are not men ; what men ever returned ? It is 
true that Shakespeare had a complete conviction of 
the existence of spirits and of their appearance here 
on earth but he never classed spirit and man as co- 
ordinate. It was not long Hamlet doubted whether 
the spirit of his father had returned : 



cpn no tuat x uivve sceil 

May be the devil : and the devil hath power 
lo assume a pleasing shape : yea, and perhaps 
Out of my weakness and my melancholy 
As he is very potent with such spirits, 

Abuses me to damn me.” 



I hat many spirits have returned after death is a 
truth of revealed religion (Mat. XXVII. 52,53 and no 
doubt to Shakespeare was a truth well-known ; but, as 
aforesaid, Hamlet is speaking of what belongs to 
men and, it may be presumed, refers to the authentic 
information they might be expected to supply. 



rrU i- ^ » viviiici, iour uays : 

^“ e . r e lives no record ot reply, 

V\ hich, telling what it is to die 
u surely added praise to praise, 

Hehold a man raised up by Christ 1 
1 he rest remaineth unrevealed; 
mu *?• ; or something sealed 

The lips of that Evangelist.— Ten. 

-had not the Everlasting fix’d 
His canon ’gainst sell -murder (slaughter). — Shakes. 



1886.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



7 



The words here quoted or rather misquoted from a 
previous part of the play are adduced to show that 
Shakespeare represents Hamlet to he a Christian. As 
this circumstance demonstrates nothing, as before 
proved, the quotation might be passed without notice. 
It may be remarked however that it is no conclusive 
evidence for the Christianity of Hamlet ; some of the 
heathens were not without knowledge of the “Canon 
’gainst self-slaughter.” — 

“ Quare et tibi, Publius, et piis,” etc., cic. dcrep. VI. 15. 

Wherefore, 0 Publius, tt is your duty and the duty 
of th.ose that have any piety, to keep their souls 
(secure) in the custody of the body, nor, without the 
command of Him by whom your soul was given 
you, to force it to depart from this human life, lest 
you should seem to desert the post of duty which has 
been by God assigned to you.” 

“ This might be a good argument in a heathen or Pagan and 
stick indeed Hamlet realty was . but Shakespeare has already 
represented him as a good Catholic.” — Goldsmith. 

Hamlet was a heathen, here he is represented as a 
Christian — this is a charge of inconsistency and one 
that has sometimes been advanced. It is fallacious. 

Shakespeare’s Hamlet is not a heathen. He is not 
the Hamlet that is said to have lived about a. d. 700. 
Of that Hamlet nothing is known with certainty- 
Some Danish chief of that name there probably was 
concerning whom traditionary notices, through the 
misty interval of 500 years, reached Saxo-Grammaticus 
and others, and which were made the foundation of a 
fabulous narrative or novel in the French language in 
1570. From this, or a translation of it, some play or 
plays in English appear to have been constructed, 
Which of these were the foundation of Shakespeare’s 
Hamlet is a question that has been much agitated. It 
seems a question of little significance for the Hamlet 
of Shakespeare is not the Hamlet of these productions 
but a new creation no more to be compared to their’s 
than Hyperion to a Satyr. To allege an inconsistency 
by subinducing the identity of the two Hamlets is a 
fallacy of equivocation, ambiguitas potens in law 
logic. It was not that fabulous Hamlet whom the 
genius of Shakespeare endowed with the eloquence 
and wit, the knowledge and reasoning that have in- 
structed and delighted the better part of mankind. 

Another of Goldsmith’s attempts to demonstrate the 
errors of Shakespeare’s reasoning in the soliloquy has 
reference to the following passage, which he quotes : 

“ And makes us rather bear the ills we have, 

Then fly to others which we know not 'of.” 

“ This declaration,” he says, “ expressly asserts that 
there must be ills m that (other) world, though what 
kind of ills they are we do not know. The argument, 

. therefore, may be reduced to this lemma, (sic.) : This 
world abounds with ills which I feel ; the other world 
abounds with ills,' the nature of which I do not know, 
therefore, I will rather bear these ills I have, ‘ than fly 
to others which I know of a deduction amounting 
x to a certainty with respect to the only circumstance 
that could create a doubt, namely, whether in death 
he should rest from his misery, and if he was certain 
there were evils in the next world as well as in this, 
he had no room to reason at all about the matter.” 



In this extraordinary march of intellect we have . 
certain propositions laid down, which are employed 
as the premises of an argument, or syllogism. He 
calls it a “ lemma,” but as his “ lemma” is constructed 
of two propositions and a’third introduced by the ill- 
ative “ therefore,” he must consider it an argument ; 
and, besides, he calls the conclusion a deduction. The 
media of his argumentation are false assumptions, 
whose falsity are manifest by simple inspection 
merely. 

Hamlet does not expressly assert that there must be 
ills in that other world. 

He does not assert it indirectly or by implication. 

He does not assert that “ the other world abounds 
with ills.” 

He does not assert “though what hind of ills they 
are we do not know,” nor “ the nature of which ills I 
do not know.” 

From theses whatever conclusions are legitimately 
inferred must be fallacious, and Shakespeare’s reason- 
ing, therefore, quoad hoc , remains invalidated. 

In the quotation above made from Hamlet’s speech, 
reference is made to “ the dread of something after 
death,” and it is this dread that, as Hamlet says, 

“ makes us rather bear the ills we have than fly to 
others which we know not of ;” the signification of 
which may be given as follows : Makes us prefer bear- 
ing the ills we have to putting ourselves (by suicide) 
in a position in which we fear we may encounter ills 
of which we know nothing. 

“ From the language of. Hamlet, we have,” Gold- 
smith says, “ a deduction amounting to certainty, that 
in death he should not rest from his misery,” — a deduc- 
tion amounting to certainty. Now the ills referred to 
are represented as contingent. They are the some- 
thing after death which was dreaded, and Goldsmith 
himself speaks of them as uncertain. The conception 
of uncertainty is involved in his own interpretation 
of the language, which interpretation is this : “ The 
dread of what may happen after death, he (Hamlet) 
says.” Hence we have two assertions, one affirming 
uncertainty, the other affirming certainty, a logical 
suicide, or contradiction. 

“ If he was certain there were evils in the next world as well 
as in this, he had no loom to reason at all about the matter .” 

— Goldsmith. 

It has been shown that Hamlet did not profess the 
certainty here adverted to, and that it canDot be 
rightly inferred from a rational construction of his 
language. Therefore, on this ground alone, Hamlet’s 
room to “reason about the matter ” remains undimin- 
ished. 

But supposing Hamlet were certain, does it follow 
that he had no room to reason at all about the matter ] 
Every object of human, thought has numerous proper- 
ties and relations, and consequently there is plenty of 
“ room ” to reason about them; and with regard to 
this object in question, it was his undeniable privilege, 
and, considering the circumstances, a necessity vwth 
him to reason about “ the ills,” to speculate, say, upon 
their “ nature” and “kind,” as spiritual or material, 
upon their duration, above all, on their magnitude, so 
that his “room for reasoning” was not a minimum, 

I not “ that which has no magnitude, as some of the 



8 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1886. 



school-books define a point to be, but “ room ” of very 
great — indeed, awfully great, dimensions. Therefore 
Hamlet had “ room,” and the contradictory proposition 
(he had no room) is repulsed. 

“Wliat alone could justify his thinking on this subject, 
would nave been the hope of flying from the ills of this world 
without encountering any others in the next.” — Goldsmith. 

Then, to have no hope in such a case, is, conversely, 
to have no justification for thinking on the subject. 
Why ? The onus probandi lay on the part of the ob- 
jector. But he takes a short way. He only asserts 
his conclusion, and rides away on the back of an 
ignoratio elenchi. 

“ Nor is Hamlet more accurate in the following reflection : — 

“ ‘ Thus conscience does make cowards of us all.* 

“And from the premises we cannot help inferring that con- 
science in this case was entirely out of the question. Hamlet 
was deterred from suicide by a full conviction that in flying 
from one sea of trouble, which he did know, he should fly into 
another which he did not know.** — Goldsmith. 

Goldsmith’s premises and conclusion, formally 
stated, yield the following syllogism : 

The case of one having a full conviction that he will 
sutler ills in the next world, is a case of conscience 
being entirely out of the question. 

The case of Hamlet is that of one having this full 
conviction. 

The case of Hamlet is a case of conscience being 
entirely out of the question. 

If one has a full conviction that he will suffer ills 
in the next world, he might have some belief that he 
deserved them — deserved them for committing suicide, 
if he should commit it, or deserve them for some other 
sin or sins that he had committed ; and, having any 
belief that he deserved them, conscience, of necessity, 
entered into the question ; so that before concluding 
argumentatively that conscience was entirely out of 
the question, it was necessary to prove that he had no 
• belief that he deserved the ills in question. But no 
proof whatsoever is adduced, and the conclusion is 
therefore worthless — a petitio principii. 

The minor has already been proved false; and con- 
sequently the conclusion inferred is false. 

In this way, metaphorically speaking, our objector, 
as usual, mounts his petitio principii) and in leaping 
the ditch of a false minor, finishes, in what Skake° 
speare, had he witnessed the performance, might have 
called a “ most lame and impotent conclusion.” 

“ His (Hamlet s) whole chain of reasoning seems inconsistent 
and incongruous. ’ * — Goldsmith. 

Hamlet’s argument is this, stated informally : 

It is better to five, bearing whatever ills we have to 
suffer in this life, than to commit suicide, because by 
that act we run the risk, as conscience testifies, of en- 
countering ills in the world to come, which are un- 
known, and of which, therefore, we can make no cal- 
culation. 

Goldsmith slates it thus : “ I am doubtful whether I 
should live or do violence upon my own life, for I 
know not whether it is more honourable to bear mis- 
fortune patiently than to exert myself in opposing 
misfortune, and, by opposing, end it.” Let us tfirow 
it into the form of a syllogism, it will stand thus. 



Then we have three syllogisms in succession, to- 
gether with some intermediate remarks. 

1. The first syllogism is constructed from a question 
which, as it contains no predication, can supply no 
premise. 

2. All the premises and all the conclusions, except 
the last conclusion, have the personal pronoun “ I” 
for their subject. 

3. In none of the syllogisms have the premises any 
logical connection or dependence, nor have any of the 
premises any logical relation to the conclusions. 

4. Consequently, none of the syllogisms have a 
middle term. 

5. Nor have any of these syllogisms what, by an 
ambiguity, can stand for a middle term, so as to en- 
title it to be ranked as a fallacy. 

Hence, it may be truly said, he has not proved that 
“ the whole chain of (Shakespeare’s) reasoning is in- 
consistent and incongruous,” nor that “ it seems ” to be 
so. 

He has not fulfilled his ironical promise: “We 

shall see how far he argues like a philosopher !” 

He has convicted Shakespeare of no errors (so far 
as his reasoning is concerned) : “ Whose very errors 

have helped to sanctify his character among the multi- 
tude.” 

The soliloquy has not been shown to be “ a heap of 
absurdities,” whether we consider the “argumentation,” 
etc., and it is not the soliloquy that may be compared to 
the “ aegri somnia ” (a sick man’s dreams), nor to the 
“ tabula cujus vanae fingentur species ” (a picture of 
fantastic figures.) 

Aa s counter authority to Goldsmith’s, it may be 
worth while quoting the following passage from the 
Quarterly Review , April, 1823 : 

“ It is small praise to say that Shakespeare was the 
greatest poet of his country. He was the sublimest 
human philosopher the world has known ; and not 
even Bacon had powers of mind which could be com- 
pared to his. But the philosophy of Bacon comes in 
its naked forms and undisguised in any garb that 
might conceal it: the philusophy of Shakespeare, 
wrapt in the dress of poetry and the pomps of scenic 
diction, becomes palpable only by reflection .” 

W. T. L. 



Ireshman professor (holding up a written exercise) 
— “ I perceive that this one was copied from outside 
helps. The man who handed it in will remain.” Half 
a dozen remained. 

MAKING IT RHYME. 

' [Bob. Burdette.] 

It is very funny, “ Ella,” if there is no rhyme for 
“window.” W ho told you there wasn’t? Sing this, 
please, without lining : 

The student seats himself to read 
The “ Pythian Odes of Pindar,” 

His jug is tilled, his pipe is lit, 

And his leet roost in the winder. 

Go to, girl, go too — there are a thousand rhymes for 
winder. 



1886.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



9 



FRANKIE. 

Seated alone in the parlor, 

One quiet Sunday night, 

While the flickering flames of the fire 
Were the only source of light. 

I heard the impatient ocean, 

Its waves at the sea-cliffs cast ; 

And the hollow echoes were mingled 
With echoes from the past. 

And as the turbulent billows 
Struck, and were dashed away, 

And others in their places 
Came and were lost in spray. 

So on my mind fell the memories 
Of days that had long gone by, 

And the good and bad were mingled, 

And a smile was checked by a sigh. 

But as the waves of memory 
Came tumbling on my brain, 

Now rising high in gladness, 

Now sinking low in pain. 

They brought me a piece of drift-wood, 

From a costly wreck a prize — 

The thought of a loved companion 
And a friendship wrecked by lies. 

And I saw not the blazing fire. 

And I heard not the thundering wave, 

But knelt in a dim cathedral, 

And walked to a lonely grave. 

And I heard the preacher murmur, 

And 1 saw the grandsire weep, 

And I heard the branches rustle 
As we left him there asleep. 

Atpie. 



JflcCBill News. 



Dr. Roddick spent the first ten days of March in 
New York and other American cities. 

Mr. McMurchy, of Toronto University, has just 
presented a picture of his college to our University 
Club. 

At a meeting of the Science students last week Mr. 
Hursey, 1st Year Science, was elected to the Reading 
Room Committee. 

The lectures closed in the Medical Faculty on March 
11th. The Summer Session will begin on April 12th, 
and continue for twelve weeks. 

Mr. H. Fry, who was recently elected to the staff of 
the Gazette in place of Mr. Colquhoun, has resigned 
the position on account .of lack of time. 

The students in Arts petitioned the Faculty to stop 
the lectures a few days earlier than is set down in the 
calendar. The Faculty replied that it would do 
nothing officially, but would leave it in the hands of 
the several professors. 

A Correction. — Through a mistake the name of 
Prof. Bovey appeared in our last issue on the list of 
those who had signed Mr. J. H. Burland’s nomination 
paper. Wd apologize to Prof. Bovey for the mistake. 
Not being a graduate of the University he could not, 
of course, sign any such paper. The names of several 
other gentlemen also, who had signed, should have 
been left out by Mr. Burland’s committee, as they were 
not graduates. 



The head of the Commissary Department of the 
Presbyterian College has decided to offer a chromo, or 
some other little article of virtu, in order to lure back 
Ye Wandering Theolog. Failing in this, the lectures 
will probably be given in the vicinity of Burnside and 
McGill College Avenue. 

We are authorized, however, to contradict the story 
that a change of buildings has been effected with the 
Hebrew Congregation on the latter street* 

Dessertf-ations on the relation of dinner to Divinity 
are now in order. 

The competitions for the Wicksteed Medals begin 
on Friday evening at 5 o’clock, in the Gymnasium. 
The following are the entries so far made : — 

For Graduates’ Gold Medal. — C. S vabey, F. Ped- 
ley, N. P. Yates, P. Ritchie and Patterson. 

For Silver and Bronze Medals. — H. Pediey and 
Pritchard. 

The competitions will occupy two days, Friday and 
Monday (March 19th and 22nd), and the order of exer- 
cises is as follows : 

Friday. — Vaulting, clubs and bridge ladders. 

Monday. — Bar bells and parallel bars. 

The competition will be keen, especially that for 
the Gold Medal, and will be well worth the presence 
of the students in general. 

On the 9th of March the Primary year made their 
annual presentation, accompanied by the following 
address, to Cook : 

Mr. Cook. — Respected janitor of our most excellent institu- 
tion ! It would he ill becoming to the cosmopolitan character 
of this class if, in the exhilarating consummation of the sessional 
activity it should forget the important duty of rendering 
‘ honour to whom honour is due,’ or in other words of showing 
its high appreciation of the unflinching pertinacity, the incalcu- 
lable activity and the unsurpassable sagacity which you have 
exhibited in the performance of the functions devolving upon . 
you in this noble work of fitting men to battle with the giant, 
disease. 

In accordance with this sentiment I beg leave, on behalf of 
this class, whose boisterous members you have so often checked 
with sage advice, whose weak ones your have so often suckled 
with motherly care, and all of whom you have so often encouraged 
with patriarchal benevolence, to present you with a small token 
of our immeasurable gratitude. 

Sinre the primary class of last year had the pleasure of per- 
forming this agreeable duty, the College and yourself have seen 
important and memorable changes ; nor do we forget the fact 
that you are to be congratulated on the important part which 
you have taken in bringing them about. When you told us 
last year that when we returned in the Autumn you would have 
prepared for us a new dissecting room with plenty of soap, 
towels, hot water and boxes, in fact plenty of everything except 
subjects, we did not suppose that you were contemplating such 
important and far-reaching changes as presented themselves to 
us on our arrival. 

It is beyond the range of practical dubiousness that one who 
is so intimately acquainted with the minute details of the College, 
and who is therefore so thoroughly conversant with its every 
ramification, would be of the highest importance as an adviser 
to a building committee, for the most part consisting of theoreti- 
cal although scientific professors. Thus you cannot construct a 
vat on purely scientific principles. It requires one practically 
acquainted with the mysteries of janitorship to settle that. It 
is true you may set up a telephone, but it requires your honored 
self to preserve it from the destructive touch of the vulgar. 

We beg leave here to congratulate you that the faculty have 
seen fit, in view of the importance of your position and the ever 



10 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1886. 



increasing burden falling upon you as the results of an enlarge- 
ment of the building, to appoint an assistant to the jani orship, 
and then to give you a better opportunity of keeping a compre- 
hensive eye over the workings of the whole establishment, hav- 
ing been relieved of some of the more commonplace duties 
attached to your post. We would likewise express the hope 
that you will so initiate your assistant into the mysteries of the 
art of injection that if in time to come you should be pleased to 
retire into more private life, you will have no unworthy successor 
in that part of the official work upon which so much of the 
pleasure, as well as profit, of dissecting depend. With these 
few' words we beg that you will accept the more tangible proof 
of the high esteem in which we hold our most excellent janitor. 

Cook’s Reply 

Gentlemen. — I thank you very heartily for your kindness, 
not only on this occasion, but also on the many other in which 
you have so generously shown your appreciation of my services 
in connection with this College. I esteem this favour all the 
more because it is the sudden and spontaneous offspring of that 
inborn generosity which is peculiar to medical students, and 
which makes them ever ready to reward any efforts made on 
behalf of their intellectual, material, and spiritual interests. 

When I left a lucrative situation in the Grand Trunk Works 
to undertake the responsibilities of the position I now' occupy, 1 
did so with the firm conviction that I could make myself more 
useful in this sphere of work, and in my capacity would do what 
I could to further the interests of medical education and of 
medical students, particularly in Montreal. 

I have always tried to do the best I could for the student, not 
only as regards the facilities for prosecuting their studies, • but 
also as regards their personal comfort and convenience. 

I have done, and always shall do, my best to uiake this Col- 
lege a home for the medical students. 

If at times 1 may have appeared to you rather strict in the 
fulfilment of my duties, please remember that order and discip- 
line are essential elements in the management of any institution, 
and that I tiy to do what is best for the interests of the College 
and yourselves. The truth of this is obvious when you reflect 
that but a short time ago our beautiful new building, with all its 
magnificent laboratories and class-rooms, was nearly bunnt down, 
and but for watchfulness and constant attention to my duties as 
janitor, would have been reduced to ashes. 

The addition of a new r w ing to the College has greatly in- 
creased the task of keeping the College in order, which devolves 
on the Dean and myself, but with the goodwill and co-operation 
of the students, I am sure that iny efforts will be crow ned with 
success. 

In conclusion, gentlemen, while thanking you once more for 
your kindness, 1 wish you eveiy success in your examinations 
and in the profession you have chosen, hoping that you may 
long live to look back upon the days you spent at McGill as 
among the brightest and happiest of your lives. 



One Opinion of “The Gazette.” 

(from the tuftonian) 

It is indeed refreshing to the Exchange Editor to 
meet, in the midst of the multitude of college perio- 
dicals which cover his table, some journals which seem 
to be written not in a more or less violent paroxysm 
of journalistic effort, but in that happy ease which is 
present with those who have something to say and are 
able to say it. Few are the distinctively literary col- 
lege journals which do not give evidence of the unea- 
siness of th<? editors under the weight of their 
obligation to fill a half-dozen pages or more per issue. 
It is rather noticeable that the only two Canadian 
journals which we receive are among this very small 
number of unforced utterances. We have previously 
classified here Varsity of the University of Toronto ; 
and now in the McGill University Gazette, the first 
five numbers of which have lately come to us from 



Montreal, we are glad to notice similar excellent char- 
acteristics. Nothing would please us more, as a task 
of criticism, than to draw a comparison between these 
two journals. But such a comparison would necessi- 
tate more careful reading than we have time to make; 
and would be hardly interesting enough to our readers 
to warrant us in bringing it into these columns. \\ e 
are content to read and enjoy ; and shall take care that 
others may have opportunity to do the same in the 
reading room. 



Societies. 



McGILL MEDICAL SOCIETY. 

The tenth and last meeting of the winter session 
was held on March 6th. The paper of the evening 
was read by Dr. Stewart, the President. It was en- 
titled “ Hints to those about to Graduate.” 

The paper was masterly in every respect. It was 
the product of close observation and careful thought. 
If the students who heard it but carry away the senti- 
ments of the paper, they will not often transgress 
Medical Ethics, they will ever remain students, and 
be an honor to their profession. The paper was an 
index of the man who gave it. 

There were 25 members present. The meetings of 
the society are adjourned till the first Thursday of the 
summer session. 



McG. U. A. A. A. 

At a large and enthusiastic meeting of the McG. U. 
A. A. A., held in No. 1 Class Room, Arts Building, on 
the evening of Monday, the 1st inst., it was decided to 
adopt the scheme of affiliation as presented by the 
joint committees of the Association, Football jmd 
Hockey Clubs, represented respectively by Messrs. 
Springle and Weir, Palmer and Patton, and* Swabey 
and Hamilton. 

The main points of the agreement are, that the 
Association shall have the power to collect the sub- 
scriptions of the various clubs, assuring them a 
certain yearly amount, with a contingent addition, and 
that a Finance Committee is to have charge of the dis- 
bursement of funds. Some of the minor points evoked 
discussion, but the feeling of the meeting was evidently 
in favor of a move which is clearly for the advance- 
ment of the athletic interests of the University. 



UNDERGRADUATES’ LITERARY SOCIETY. 

ihe last meeting for the session of this society was 
held on- Friday, March 5th, Mr. N. P. Yates, President, 
in the chair. Mr. McOuat was appointed critic for 
the evening. Mr. F. Topp, seconded by Mr. McOuat, 
moved that a notice of the society, together with a list 
of its present officers, be sent to the authorities for in- 
sertion in the calendar. It was moved to amend this 
by striking out the list of officers ; — lost. The motion 
was put and carried. 

Ihe essayist of the evening, Mr. J. Naisinith, was 
unfortunately compelled to be absent, but Mr. Lindsay 



1886 .] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



11 



read the essay which the former had prepared. The 
‘ reading ’ was a 1 recitation ’ by Mr. Win. Patterson. 

The evening’s debate was on the subject, “ Resolved 
that ancient oratory was more influential than modern 
is.” The alflrmative was supported by Messrs. Topp, 
Nicholls, and E. De F. Holden ; while the negative 
found expression through Messrs. Macallum, Hopkins 
and Hislop : both sides seemed to have equally wrought 
upon the judgment and feelings of those present, for 
the chairman had to decide, which he did in favour of 
the negative. Mr. McOuat read his critique. Then 
the meeting adjourned till next session, the date of 
the first meeting to be posted. 



College Y.M.C.A. 



Colquhoun, C. J. Brooke, A. Falconer, C. Cushing, 
N.N* ; Prof. Hutchinson, J. T. Donald, J. H. Burland, 
T. W. Lesage, Rev. J. A. Newnhain, Geo. Ross, M.D. ; 
A. E. Barnard, E. Lafleur, A. W. Atwater, James Bell, 
M.D. ; W. G. Johnston, M.D. ; J. Ii. Dougall, F. J. 
Shepherd, M.D., and J. Ralph Murray, Secretary. 

After the notice calling the meeting had been read 
by the Secretary, Mr. C. J. Brooke moved, seconded 
by Mr. G. C. Wright, — ‘‘That the Committee of this 
Society be instructed to issue immediately to all gra- 
duates qualified to vote in this present election of 
Representative Fellows, a circular signed by the Pre- 
sident and Secretary of this Society, and couched in 
the following terms 

Election of Representative Fellows. 



The annual meeting of the College Y.M.C.A. was 
held in No. 1 class-room, on Saturday evening, March 
6th, the president, Mr. Kendall, in the chair. About 15 
members were present. After the minutes of the last 
meeting were read and confirmed, the business on 
hand for the evening was taken up. The membership 
committee reported 90 members on the roll as against 
70 last year. The question of the weekly prayer- 
meeting and mission work was then taken up. Mr. 
Clouston reported in regard to the mission work at 
Cote St. Louis, stating that the people of that place 
seemed to be much interested in the addresses of the 
students who visited them. The Cor. Secretary’s report 
showed that letters of correspondence had been sent 
to and received from the different College Associations 
in the Dominion. The Social Committee gave a very 
favorable report in regard to the interest taken by the 
people of the city in the members of the association. 
The Treasurer’s report was not as satisfactory as could 
be desired, owing to some misunderstanding among the 
members in regard to the annual fee — fifty cents. The 
Secretary was instructed to send the congratulations of 
the association to the Toronto Association on the 
occasion of their haying just enteredtheir new build- 
ing The question of a building for the McGill 
Association was also discussed, and a committee 
was appointed to see what could be done in regard to 
this matter. The officers elected for the year 1886- 
’87, are President, J. K. Unsworth, B. A ; Secretary, 
Win. J. Stewart B,A; Cor. Sec’y., J. McDougall, 4th 
year Arts ; Treasurer, F. Pritchard, 2nd year Arts. 

The meeting then adjourned. 



GRADUATES’ SOCIETY. 

A special meeting of the Society, called by requisi 
tion for the purpose of considering the mode of no- 
mination and election of Representative Fellows, and 
any other business arising out of the same, was held 
on Tuesday evening, 9th March, in the L T niversity 
Club, at 8 p.m. 

Amongst others there were present : — Prof. C. H. 
McLeod, President, in the chair ; Messrs. F. W.Kelley, 
G. W. Stephens, M.P.P. ; J. S. Hall, R. F. Ruttan, 
M.D. ; W. J. Sproule, G. C. Wright, C. E. Cameron, 
M.D. ; J. F. Torrance, W. T. Skaife A. McGoun, James 
Stewart, M.D. ; A. J. Brown, W. F. Ritchie, W. Dixon, 
J. Hutchins, W. H. Turner, J. F. Mackie, A. H. U. 



By a resolution of the Graduates’ Society, passed at 
a special meeting held on the 9th March, the name of 
Mr. Jeffrey H. Burland, B. Ap. Sc., has been added to 
the list of those duly nominated by the Society for the 
office of Rrepresentative Fellow. Mr. Burland has 
been nominated as a candidate for the vacant Fellow- 
ship in the Faculty of Applied Science. 

C. H. McLeod, President. 

J. Ralph Murray, Secretary . 

Mr. J. S. Hall raised the point of order whether this 
came under the business for which the meeting had 
been called ; Mr. Torrance, also, on the ground that 
the wording of trie Resolution was contrary to the By- 
Law". After some discussion ihe objection was with- 
drawn. , The motion having been discussed by Messrs. 
J. F. Torrance, Turner, G. W. Stephens, Falconer, 
Kelley and Ritchie, was put to the meeting and 
carried. 

Mr. McGoun, having asked the President to leave 
the chair, which was thereupon taken by Dr Kelley, 
Vice-President, moved, seconded by Mr. W. T. Skaife 
“ that it be resolved : That this meeting regrets the 

publication in the University Gazette of the article 
headed c Prof. C. H. McLeod,’ and records its opinon 
that the reflections therein contained on the President 
of this Society are unwarranted, and deserving of the 
censure of the Graduates of this University.” 

Messrs. Torrance, Hutchinson, Geo. W. Stephens, J. 
R. Dougall, W. H. Turner, Murray, Mackie, Atwater, 
Colquhoun, Ritchie and others spoke. Mr. Murray, 
Editor-in-Chief of the University Gazette, wished to 
take the whole responsibility for the article, and stated 
that the other editors were in no way connected with 
it. He explained that the article had been written at 
the last moment, when the paper w^s on the point of 
going to press ; that at the time he was angry at the way 
in which Mr. Burland’s nomination had been thrown 
out, and at the untrue stories which lie had been in- 
formed were being circulated to Mr. Burland’s detri- 
ment. He confessed that the tone of the article was 
altogether too harsh, and offered to apologize, provided 
Prof McLeod explicitly denied having had anything 
to do with the action of the Registrar, which had been 
the cause of Mr. Burland’s nomination being left out. 

Prof. McLeod not replying, after further discussion 
the motion was put to the meeting, and carried by 16 
to 15. 



12 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1886. 



Prof. McLeod thereupon immediately produced a 
letter from the Registrar, countersigned by his clerk, 
certifying that the accusation made against him was 
unfounded. 

Mr. Murray then made a full and complete apology 
for the publication of the article in question, and pro- 
mised to give an equal publicity to the apology to that 
which had been given to the aiticle, in the University 
Gazette. He wished to state, however, that the pub- 
lication of the article had been in good faith. 

The meeting then adjourned. 



Correspondence. 



Editors of the McGill Gazette : — 

Gentlemen. — Pray permit me to announce that I 
have retired from the contest for the position of Repre- 
sentative Fellow in Law. 

When I was first requested to stand, I was assured 
that Mr. John 8. Hall did not desire re-election. 
Although I have no reason to doubt that this assurance 
was given in good faith, I find that on the contrary 
Mr. Hall is seeking re-election, and in view of my very 
friendly relations with Mr. Hall, and as no one seems 
to have any grounds of objection to him, I have con- 
cluded not to oppose him and beg, therefore, to with- 
draw my name. 

At the same time, permit me to offer my acknow- 
ledgments of the very generous support accorded me. 

I am, gentlemen, your obedient servent. 

Ii. D. McGibbon. 

95 Union Avenue. 

March 9th, 1886. 



PRESENTATION TO THE UNIVERSITY CLUB. 

» 

Editors McGill Gazette : — 

Dear Sirs. — I have received from Mr. Dugald J. 
MacMurchy, of University College, Toronto, a hand- 
some picture of the splendid buildings of that renown- 
ed College, accompanied by a note requesting me to 
forward the picture to the University Club, and to 
express his best wishes for the future success of our 
Club. This I have done, and it affords me much 
pleasure to chronicle the kindness and good taste with 
which a member of our sister University has shown 
the interest he takes in our new social organisation. 
Mr. MacMurchy, it will be remembered, represented 
Toronto University at the recent Arts dinner, and the 
favorable impression then crearted by the frankness and 
cordiality of his greetings to McGill men, will be in- 
creased by this substantial token of regard to McGill 
and McGill’s new club. 

Yours truly, 

A. H. U Colquhoun. 

Montreal, March 10th, 1886. 



Editors University Gazette : — 

In your last issue you publish a letter by “ Vox’’, 
which we refused. We do not feel called upon at 
any time to give reasons why we reject articles, not I 



even to the party whose writings are refused publica- 
cation in our columns. But the tone of “ \ ox’s 
effusion, and the heading which you gave it in the 
Gazette, might lead the public to believe that we 
were afraid to publish in the Presbyterian College 
Journal articles which professed to be ‘ hard on ’ theo- 
logical seminaries. Well, we are not. We profess to 
edit a thoroughly independent college paper. Thi , 
of course, does not necessarily imply that we feel it 
our bounden duty to show how independent we are 
by attacking our College calendar and professor regu- 
larly. It only means that we are ready to publish that 
which we consider to be truthful and honest, be that 
favorable or unfavorable to our College. 

But now for the reasons why we refused “ Vox’s” 
contribution. We rejected it, because we have a 
supreme contempt for plagiarism and for plagiarists. 
If we had published “ Vox’s” article without stating 
that it was cribbed almost bodily from Huxley’s 
“ Lay Sermons,” (pp 31-60) we were afraid that he 
might think that we really considered him capable of 
writing such an article. We thought, also, that he 
might be led to suppose we did not know that it was 
in reality Prof. Huxley’s. 

We are ashamed to think that a graduate of McGill, 
however little credit he was to her as a student, should 
be guilty of endeavoring to pall off on the world, as 
his own, that which is another man’s. Had he been 
possessed of even an ordinary degree of shrewdness, he 
might have suspected why we rejected his article.* 
We are especially indignant as this is the second time 
that unacknowledged second-hand articles have been 
sent in to us for publication. We want it to be the 
last ; and we feel confident that the editors of the 
McGill Gazette, do not want to be insulted with such 
compilations any more than we do. We are always 
suspicious of first-rate articles when sent in by third 
or fourth-rate men, and we do not think we are likely 
to be trapped by them. 

What sort of opinion will honorable students and 
graduates entertain for such men as “Vox,” when, 
the most contemptible plagiarists themselves, unable 
even to vary the expressions of the writers ffom whom 
they 4 crib’, they yet set themselves up to discuss 
what is, and what is not, good teaching ; and what 
should, and what should not, be taught in a college 
curriculum. 

“ \ ox ” uses some good phrases ; but the trouble is, 
Prof. Huxley used them first. The following are a 
few of them : “ One is tempted to think of Falstaff ’s 

bill and the half-penny worth of bread to all that 
quantity of sack.” That is Huxley’s verbatim. I 
wonder whether “ \ ox ” ever read the fable about the 
jackdaw picking up the peacock’s feathers and adorn- 
iDg himself with them. If not, he ought to. 

One sees large traces of Huxley’s composition, also, 
in the big talk about “ the broad laws of morality,” 
and “ the application of those laws to the difficult pro- 
blems which result from the complex conditions of 
modern civilization ” So, also, in “ the philosophic 
calm and meditative stillness, ’ where “ philosophy 
does not strive” and “ meditation bears no fruit.” In 
fact, these expressions are borrowed from Mr. Huxley. 

But we must not trespass on your valuable space 



1886.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



13 



more than is necessary. We will, therefore, quote a 
couple of paragraphs from tho “Lay Sermons” — that 
on a ‘Liberal Education* — when, we expect, the reader 
will understand why “ Vox’s ” article was refused 
publication in the Presbyterian College Journal. 

“ Education is the instruction of the intellect in the 
laws of Nature, under which name I include not mere- 
ly things and their forces, but men and their ways ; 
and the fashioning of the affections amd of the will 
into an earnest and loving desire to move in harmony 
with those laws. For me, education means neither 
more nor less than this. Anything which professers 
to call itself education must be tried by this standard, 
and if it fails to stand the test, I will not call it edu- 
cation.” (Lay Sermons p. 36). 

“ That man, I think, has a liberal education, who 
has been so trained in youth that his body is the ready 
servant of his will, and does with ease and pleasure all 
the work that, as a mechanism, it is capable of; 
whose intellect is a clear, cold, logic engine, with all 
its parts of equal strength, and in smooth working 
order ; ready, like a steam engine, to be turned to any 
kind of work, and spin the gossamers as well as forge 
the anchors of the mind ; whose mind is stored with a 
knowledge of the great and fundamental truths of 
Nature and of the laws of her operations ; one who, 
no stunted ascetic, is full of life and fire, but whose 
passions are trained to come to heel by a vigorous 
will, the servant of a tender conscience ; who has 
learned to love all beauty, whether of Nature or of art, 
to hate all vileness, and to respect others as himself.” 
(p. 39.) 

When these quotations are compared with “Vox’s” 
article, I think the Editors of the Presbyterian College 
Journal will be excused for not publishing it. 

J. A. Macfarlane. 



Hollege tfclorli). 

The rules of William and Mary College in 1772 
forbade the students to drink anything except “cider, 
beer, toddy and spirits and water.” 

Comparative Longevity of Men and Women. — 
Interesting researches concerning the comparative long- 
evity of men and women in Europe have recently 
been made by the Director of the Bureau of Statistics 
at Vienna. From these it appears that about a third 
more women than men reach advanced age. Women 
oftener lead quiet, regular lives. They have fewer bad 
habits, are less exposed to strong passion and excite- 
ment. It appears from the gathered statistics of the 
world that women have a greater tenacity of life than 
men. Nature worships the female in all its varieties. 
Among insects, the male perishes at a relatively early 
period. In plants, the seminate blossoms die earliest, 
and are produced in the weaker limbs. Female qua- 
drupeds have more endurance than males. In the 
human race, despite the intellectual and physical 
strength of man, the woman endures longest, and will 
bear pain to which the strongest man succumbs. Zy- 
motic diseases are more fatal to males, and more male 
children die than females. Deverga asserts that the 



proportion dying suddenly is about 100 women to 780 
men; 1,080 men in the United States in 1870 committed 
suicide to 285 women. Intemperance, apoplexy, gout, 
hydrocephalus, affections of the liver, scrofula, para- 
lysis, are far more fatal to males than females. 

Pulmonary consumption, on the other hand, is more 
deadly to the latter, which argues that we ought to give 
the girls of our families all the out-door exercise they 
need. Females in cities are more prone to consump- 
tion than in the country. All old countries not dis- 
turbed by emigration have a majority of females in the 
population. In royal families the statistics show more 
daughters than sons. The Hebrew woman is exception- 
ally long-lived, while the coloured man is exception- 
ally short-lived. The rush and worry of the average 
business man in this country is apt to make him 
prematurely old, unless he takes judicious recreation. 
The females are to a great extent exempt from his 
overstraining about business cares, which may, in a 
degree, account of their superior vitality. 



Between the Lectures. 



Scene in Laboratory. Student — “ This must be the 
right formula, sir, for its on the bottle.” Prof. — “ My 
friend, bottles often mislead us.” 

“ Have you any kids ?” inquired a young lady of a 
new clerk in a glove store. “Not yet,” said the 
clerk, with a blush ; “ I have been married but three 
weeks.” 

At a Sunday school in this city, a teacher asked a 
new scholar — a little girl — what her name was. She 
replied, ‘ Helen French.’ An urchin in an adjoining 
seat sang out, ‘ What is it in English 1 ’ 

It is a very easy matter for a person to be in two 
places at the same time, even though those places be 
thousands of miles apart. One frequently hears of a 
man being in a strange country and home, sick. 

Student ( who has lost the place). “Where did you 
tell me to begin, Professor V 1 

Instructor (too old a bird to have salt sprinkled on 
his tail). “I did not say, but you can go on where the 
last man left off.” 

Professor (lecturing on psychology). — “ All pheno- 
mena are sensations. For instance, that leaf appears 
green to me. In other words, I have a sensation of 
greenness within me.” 

Of course no harm was meant, but still the class 
would laugh. 

1 st Student , at Lunch — (with a German news- 
paper). — What does this mean : “ Was willst du 

haben ? 99 

2nd S. (eagerly). — I know ! It means : “ What will 
you have ] ” 

1*£ <S. — Thank you : don’t care if I do ; I’ll take 
beer. 

3 rd S. — I’ll take a cigar. 

4 th S. — I’ll take oysters. 

2nd S. — I — I guess I translated that wrong. 



14 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE, 



[1886. 



OUR OWN JOKER. 

Soph, stroking his moustache, or rather upper lip, 
" Come, Down.” 

We received the following contribution some time 
ago, the French of which is said to have been written 
by Victor Hugo, and the English by a young man of 
considerable note.* 

If Hugo did write the French of this version, we 
can understand why his funeral was so large. We 
ourselves would wullingly attend the funeral of the 
man who wrote these lines. It is labeled a 

POME. 

Oh J je vous aiine, ma belle amie 
An 1 tell it on mi bended nee, 

Et si votre p&re no viendra pas 
lie ftop and beg you from your ma. 

•Promissory note, probably.— Ed. 



II parlait, jnais le pdre-gst vu— 

Our hero’s eye lit on his shoe 

Et sautant avec grand terreur 

He fled like lightning through the “ dure.” 

La fille, so jettant bas aux pieds, 

Her irate father strove to sta, 

Mais sans success. II firm ses yeux 
And startz the luvver 2 pursue. 

Le fiancl aprit son chance. 

Yet buckwards c»sts a fearsome giants. 

Et tombant sur un petit roche, 

The old man falls with horrid squache. 

Le vielliard enrage voyait 
The mocking lover glide away. 

“ Retournez vite, mon fils,” il dit 
“ My dauter lie bestoe on thee.” 



When Simpkins got married for the fourth time, 
and his friends teased him about it, he said that he* 
could not help it, as he’s Benedicted to it for some 
years. 



GURNEY’S 

Hot Water Heaters 



CAST BUNDY RADIATORS. 




H SEND FOR CIRCULARS [t 



E. & C. GURNEY & CO , 

385 and 38*7 St. Daul Street. 

MONTREAL. 

Wholesale Manufacturers of Stoves, Etc. 



J\ ZMTjAT^IIEJSr, 

Hail Dresser and Wig Maker* 

1368 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 

WELLINGTON ARCADE, 

MONTREAL. 



Perfumery and Hair Goods kept in stock. Special attention for 
LADIES’ 1 11 A M PO PING and CHIL DR EN ' S H AIR CUTTING. 

Antiseptic Materials, 
Bandages, Etc., 

MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 



W. A. DYER & CO., 

Pharmaceatical & Dispsii Chemists, 

14 & 16 Phillips Square. Cor. St. Catherine St., 



KiONTREAL. 



Bandages, Roller, Muslin. 

Bandages, Cotton. 

Bandages, Absorbent. 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze. 

Bandages, Plaster Paris 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, assorted. 



Cotton Wool, Absorbent. 

Cotton Wool, Borated. 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated. 

Cotton Wool, Sublimated. 
Drainage Tubes. Rubber and Bone. 



Gauze, Absorbent. 

Gauze, Borated. 

Gauze, Carbolized. 

Gauze, Eucalyptol. 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze, Naphthalin. 

Gauze, Salicylated. 



Gutta Fercha Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill; Inhalers, Celluloid 
Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached. 

Jute, Absorbent. 

Jute, Carbolized. 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated ; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels ; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes ; 
Sponges, Antiseptic ; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain ; Sponges’ 
Gamgee’s Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies’. 




McGill university gazette. 



SPEOIiiL EEDTJCTIOITS I 





All 


Reduced 


At 


s. 


Carsley’s. 




All 


Reduced 


At 


s. 


Carslev’s. 




All 


Reduced 


At- 


s. 


Carslev’s. 


• 


All 


Reduced 


At 


s. 


Carsley’s. 




AU 


Reduced 


At 


s. 


Carsley’s 




All 


Reduced 


At 


s. 


Carsley’s. 



MEN’S SILK TIES, 

MEN’S SILK SCARFS, 

MEN’S SILK (MADE) TIES, 

MEN’S SILK MUFFLERS, 

MEN’S SILK MIXED MUFFLERS, 

MEN S CASHMERE MUFFLERS, 

FANCY SILK HANDKERCHIEFS, ) 

WHITE SILK HANDKERCHIEFS, \ 

SILK HANDKERCHIEFS, In all Colors, \ 



MEN’S LINED KID GLOVES, ) 

MEN’S LINED KID MITTS, \ 

MEN’S DRIVING GLOVES, \ 

MEN’S BUCKSKIN GLOVES, 

MEN S DOGSKIN GLOVES, 

MEN’S PIEWAR GLOVES, 

MEN’S BUCKSKIN MITTS, 

MEN’S WOOLEN MITTS, 

MEN’S WOOLEN GAUNTLETS, 



All Reduced 

At S. Carsley’s. 

All Reduced 

At S. Cai’sley’s. 

All Reduced 

At S. Carslev’s. 

All Reduced 

At S. Carslev’s. 

All Reduced 

At S. Carsley’s. 

All Reduced 

\t S. Carslev’s. 



S. CARSLEY, m ^S^S n - notre dame street, 

ML 



J.& E. McENTYRE, 

Merchant 

TAILORS, 



El X& 7 X [= 



MONTREAL, 



Wm. J^OTMAN SfjSoN, 




IE 



New Scale of Prices 

THIS YEAR 

-h(c FOR STUDENTS 

17 BldEURV ST. 





BI CYCL ES ! ! 

Lawn Tennis Sets, Foot 
Balls, Boxing Gloves, 
Fencing Foils, 
Masks, &c. 



— ALSO — 

PRIZES OF ALL DESCRIPTION 

WEDDING, CHRISTMAS AND BIRTHDAY PRESENTS 

Fancy Goods, Electro Plate, &c. 

WATSON & PELTON, 

o't ST. SULPICE STREET. 



IB. Jk.. G-EETH, 

IMPORTER OF 

EAT 41 J. ©SttA&g* 

Briar and Meerschaum Pipes, 

SULTANS, KHEDIVES AND BEYS EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES IN BOXES OF 25. 

Tx-y St-vid.e2a.ts Zbvdiact-vire. 

Paces and other Cut Plugs from $1.00 upwards. 

1323 ST. CATHERINE ST., Queen’s Block, 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



GEO. BROWN & SONS, 

Tmmss» 

Jllpl anit ©ollmj fUanufatlmm, 

21 BLEURY ST. 

Snow Shoe & ToboganingSuHs, Tuques, Sashes. 
Stockings, & c.. &c. 

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 

jlurgiral JnslruniBnls. 

A FULL STOCK CONSTANTLY ON HAND 

IMPORTED DIRECT 

— FROM THE — 

Leading Manufacturers of the World. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. 



384 ST. PAUL STREET. 



C. ASHFORD'S 

Cheap Book, Stationery, 

A.JSTID 

T AHOY 600DS S HOF, 

MEDICAL BOOKS, 

Students' Note Books, Dissecting Cases & Scalpels, 

[BY WEISS & S 03 ST 1 , 

CHEAP FOR CASH. 

Books procured to order from England & the United States. 

678£ AND 680 DORCHESTER ST., 

MONTREAL. 



PHOTOGRAPHY. 

Fcr Cabinet Photos, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD’S. 

For Croups go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD'S. 

For Composition of Croups go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD’S. 

For all kinds of Photography go to 



THE 

TJnrlanfl ^itliortrapliic (Vy., 

5 & 7 BLEURY STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

General Engravers, Lithographers, 
Printers and Publishers. 

This establishment is the oldest in Canada and is the 
largest and most complete of its kind in the Dominion, having 
every facility for executing 

ALL KINDS 

OF 

^•Engraving and Fine Printing-3* 



NOTES, DRAFTS, CHEQUES, BILLS OF EXCHANGE 
and all classes of BANK WORK, finely executed on 
safety or other paper of the latest and 
most improved- kinds. 



BILLHEADS, BUSINESS OAKDS, NOTE & LETTER 
HEADINGS, ENVELOPES 

and every description of commercial form. 

By Lithography or Letter Press Printing. 

SHOW CAROS, GLOSS LABELS, COTTON TIC- 
KETS, HAPS, CALENDARS, and EVERT SPECIES of 
COLOR PRINTING. 



PHOTO-LITHOGRAPHY 

Reproductions rapidly and clearly made. 

Photo- Engraving - , 

BOOKS, PLANS, PEN DRAWINGS and MAPS, repro- 
duced suitable for ORDINARY PRINTER’S USE. 

T7 PEOCESS. 

We are the only firm in Canada Really Engraving* 
subjects by this process, and can produce specimens of map 
work equal to the best work by U. S. artists. 



ELECTROTYPING and STEREOTYPING 

In all their several branches. 

Ball Programmes, Invitations, At Home and Visiting 
Cards, neatly and tastefully engraved and printed. 

SPECIAL DESIGNS MADE FOR 

MENU CARDS, ORESTS, MONOGRAMS, BUSINESS 
DIES, &c., &c. 

And all kinds of Paper, Envelopes and Cards 

Embossed and Illuminated. 



SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD'S. 
SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleury Street. 



