The McGill Gazette 

Vol. II. Montreal, March i, 1876. No. 7. 



Molson Hall 

A Montreal Reviewer on Kant 
Classics and Mathematics, &c. 

Formation of Clubs, &c 

McGill University Glee Club. 
University Literary Society . . . 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE. 

75 

77 

79 

81 

82 

83 



Athletics 

Correspondence 

Annual Report to the Visitor. 

Personals 

Items 

Exchanges 

Advertisements 



PAGE. 

83 

84 

85 

86 

86 

86 

73.- 74? 87, 88 



The McGill Gazette is published semi-monthly during the College Year by the undergraduates of the University . 
Terms , $1.00 per annum; Single Copies , 10 Cents . For sale at Drysdale's , Dawson's and IlilVs . Subscriptions and 
Advertisements to be sent to the Secretary, McGill College . Contributions should be directed to the Editors , McGtll 

College . 

The Gazette requests contributions of tales, essays, and all suitable literary matter from University men. It 
will open its columns to any controversial matter connected with the College, provided the communications are written 
in a gentlemanly manner. 

All matter intended for publication must be accompanied by the name of the writer in a scaled envelope , which 
will be opened if the contribution is inserted, but will be destroyed if rejected. This rule will be strictly adhered to. 

II. II. WOOD, Secretary. 



SAVAGE, LYMAN § CO. 

Have received from ULYSSE NARDIN, of Locle, 

a Case of 

FINE WATCHES 



in Gold and Silver Cases in every variety of manufacture. 
Also an assortment of 

FINE DIAMONDS, EMERALDS, ROBIES, &c., 

which can be mounted, at short notice, on the premises 
ALSO IN STOCK : 

Their usual Assortment of RICH JEWELLERY, 
SILVER AND ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, 
CLOCKS, BRONZES, &c., &c. 

226 & 228 Sf. James Street. 



MACMASTER & HALL, 



gldiocatcj 

181 ST. JAMES STREET. 



J. 1>. ANDERSON, 




MECHANICS’ HALL BUILDING, 



206 ST. JAMES STREET, 
MONTREAL. 



AUVA YS IN STOCK, SEASONABLE GOODS , 
SELECTED FOR A 
FIRST-CLASS CUSTOM BUSINESS. 



John C. Becket, 

STEAM 

Rook and Job Printer, 

OGS & 600 CRAIG STREET 

MONTREAL. 



I). MACMASTER, H.C.I.. 



J. S, HALL, JR. B.A., T.C.L. 



I 



74 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



<30 TO 

Walsh’s Clothing House, 

THE GREAT 

Custom Clothing and Tailoring Establishment, 

463 NOTRE DAME STREET, 

Near McGill Street, MONTREAL. 

A large assortment of Gentlemen’s, Youths’ and 
Boys’ Fine Ready-Mades always in stock. 

Prices very moderate. A call solicited. 

W. WALSH & CO. 

GORGE & CO., 



FIRST PREMIUM PRACTICAL 




Wholesale and Retail 



No. 21 St. Lawrence Street, 

MONTREAL. 

437 and 439 Ilotre Tams Street* 
0-0 TO 

Cheapside! 

FOR YOUR 

DRY GOODS, 

And tell the Salesman that your are buying goods in 
answer to an advertisement in the McGill Gazelle. 

A. A. MURPHY. 



S. K. PARSON'S, 

DEALER IN 

FURNITURE 

IN ALL ITS VARIETIES, 

AND OF TIIE 

LATEST STYLES. 

Brackets, Slipper Racks, Fancy Chairs, 

&c., &c., &c., 

Nos. 603 and 605 Craig Street 

( In rear of the ttezu Dost Office ) 

MONTREAL. 

N EW LIST! 

Baldwin and Walker’s best Four-ply Fingering Yarn 

$1.38 per lb. 

John Baton & Sons’ best Three-ply Scotch Alloa 



Wheeler Yarn 90c. 

Canadian Four-ply Fingering Yarn 75c. 

Best English Cocoa-nut Malting 30c. 

English Stair Oil-cloth uj£c. 

English Floor Oil-cloth, yard wide 28c. 

Lace Curtains, good quality $1 05 per pair. 

Lace Curtains, 3^ yards long $1 25 

Lace Curtains, four yards long $2 65 



Three Cases White Quilts, to be sold very cheap this 
week, from $1 25 to $4 each. 

Two Cases Colored Cloth Table-covers, from 50 cents 
to $7 each. 

One Case Piano Covers, from $6 50 to $12 each. 

NOTICE . — We are selling goods much below value 
for X’MAS PRESENTS. 

s. OARSLEY, 

Xo. 399 XOTRE DAME STREET. 

IIIIIEISm IITEMW SICIETI 

MEETS 

MARCH 3rd, 

IN 

Academy of Music, Victoria Street, 
AT 3 O’CLOCK, P. It. , 

Reader. — Mr. F. J. Keller, B.C.L. 

Essayist.— Mr. R. W. Boodle, B.A. (Oxon) 

Debate . — “ Should Colonists accept Imperial 
titular distinctions for colonial public ser- 
vices ? ” 

F. D. MONK, Rec.-Sec. 



The McGill Gazette. 

Vol. II., Nezo Series. McGill College , March ist , 18/6. No. 7 



MOLSON HALT. 

We all look upon the past with reverence. 
I he student of history, that he may draw cor- 
rect inferences from the contemplation of the 
heroes of the past, must transport himself to 
the times and scenes, in which they lived and 
acted, and must imagine himself their contem- 
porary. But, in thus contemplating the past, 
one casts aside all prejudice, and, being blind 
to all the follies and imperfections of those 
heroes, one sees only their virtues, and attri- 
butes to them qualities superior to those of 
the men of one’s own day. 

But especially is this the case in connection 
with the history of Universities. Whilst 
listening to an old Graduate, as he narrates 
the story of his own undergraduate course, 
or dilates upon the legends and traditions 
connected with our “ Alma Mater,” we become 
convinced that the College, or at least the 
students, have sadly degenerated, that the 
spirit of joviality has been buried with the 
past, and that college life of the present day 
is comparatively tame. 

The success of “Tom Brown,”. and other 
works of the same description, is due, to a 
great extent, to this respect and reverence, 
which all students feel towards their predeces- 
sors ; and to the same feeling may be traced 
the peculiar sensations experienced by one 
visiting the old and time honored Universities 
of the Old World. As the student of History, 
upon visiting some ancient and historic scene, 
associates therewith some great deeds there 
accomplished or some great names with which 
the place is connected, so the undergraduate, 
retiring within the narrower world of his 
College, may be equally enthusiastic in associ- 
ating with the scenes before him visions of 
those who formerly occupied his position, and 
who have since gone out into the world, and 
have there, by their talent, acquired honour 
for themselves and their University. Some 
may think, that McGill has not yet sufficiently 
gathered the moss and rust of age, to act as a 
very suggestive agent to those who may intend 
at some future period to be numbered among 
her Alumni ; but there is at least one scene 
within her walls pregnant with associations, 
alike to graduate and undergraduate. Every 



graduate has peculiar reminiscences upon 
entering “ Molson Hall,” in which he has 
undergone so much torture and in which, as a 
reward for unremitting toils he received the 
longed-for parchment; and the undergraduate, 
whilst reflecting possibly upon what he has to 
undergo, cannot abstain from thinking of the 
hundreds whom the “ Hall” has known, but 
now knows no more. Such thoughts are greatly 
fostered by the inscriptions with which the 
desks are covered, a few of which will 
form a fine text for some rambling comments 
To the uninitiated it may not be amiss to 
state, that “ Molson Hall,” which presents so 
harmless an appearance at such times as it 
receives the public, periodically puts on a much 
graver and more business like aspect. A 
strange metamorphosis takes place. Desks, 
disfigured with the ink and inscriptions accu- 
mulated during numerous examinations, are 
inserted amongst the seats, and in fact the 
wTiole hall assumes a more academical and 
scholastic air. Professors, who, contrary to 
their every day practice, have divested them- 
selves of all charity and all mercy, are seen 
flitting about with countenances expressive of 
a firm belief in the natural depravity of all 
undergraduates ; whilst students with hollow 
cheeks, dull eyes, and a general expression of 
weariness, come up with the air of martyrs to 
undergo the much dreaded examinations. 
“ Molson Hall,” new and modern as it is, can 
tell its little tale of the troubles and anxieties 
of undergraduates. Seme, in anxious dread 
of finding themselves among the list of “ pluck 
ed,” have shown greater dexterity in commit 
ting their sensations to the inkstained desks, 
than in passing their examinations ; some again, 
rejoicing over what is perhaps an unexpected 
victory, show a temperament much more 
jubilant, and others have, in some neat man- 
ner, expressed their regret at leaving “ the 
dear old College.” On entering the Hall one 
day the writer was immediately struck with a 
bit of art which displayed on the part of the 
artist a very vivid imagination. A student has 
carved upon the desks a pair of scales, in one 
pan of which is seen a mathematical paper of 
very insignificant appearance, whilst he has 
represented himself as having taken a seat in 
the opposite pan, when to his evident dismay, 



7 6 



THE McGILL GAZETTE 



“The latter quick up flew and kicked the beam.” 

Many there are, who are annually convinced 
of their insignificance, when, having pitted 
themselves with confidence against a mathema- 
tical paper harmless in appearance, they have 
been forced to yield to its specific gravity, or 
to some other quality equally destructive. 

But another student has met with a more 
melancholy termination to his struggle with 
Mathematics, and, over a casket bedecked with 
the skull and cross-bones, has left the follow- 
ing inscription. 

Hie jacet Occisus est a P. 

R. I. P. 

He has since been resuscitated, and if I mis- 
take not has entered the healing profession, 
and is now, doubtless, in a position to reverse 
the order of things, and instead of being the 
object has become the agent of a slaughter, less 
harmless than that to which he himself fell a 
victim. 

To the plucked there appears to be no conso- 
lation in this life, and — so numerous are the 
monuments — that one would judge thoughts of 
suicide to be frequently entertained as a balm 
to their misfortune. Doubtless such were the 
feelings of the author of the following ; 

“ Sacred to the memory of H. J. who fell at 
the commencement of a glorious career, a victim 
to the ravaging effects of Chemistry 

Many of the present undergraduates can 
sympathize with our departed friend. An 
epidemic, similar to that to which H. J. fell a 
victim, semi-annually sweeps over the College, 
and numbers are as often sacrificed to its 
rapacious demands. After each visit the ranks 
of the Freshmen are left thinned and depleted, 
although in justice to the contagion we must 
admit, that its victims are invariably chosen 
with a great deal of discrimination. Passing 
on, I came upon a table on which a student 
had struggled with a Botany paper, and, if we 
accept his own statement, had been worsted. 
He consoles himself with the following ; 

“ On the other side of Jordan, 

In the sweet fields of Eden, 

Where the Phaenogams are blooming, 

There is rest for thee. — Pluckee.” 

Our friend shows a needless despondency in 
thus banishing all hopes of rest on this side of 
Jordan, but even in these lines he has betrayed 
his love of nature, since paradise is to him, but 
a place abounding in Phaenogams. Would he 
but apply himself, we might yet hear of him in 
the ranks of science. 

The following I will leave to those to whom 
it will apply, satisfied that the emotions it sug- 
gests will be sufficiently vivid without any 
extraneous aid. 



“ Sunt qui in honors mathematicis se magno- 
pere j actant. ” 

Some poor fellow, who certainly did not 
belong to the above class, has left this question, 
which I will not undertake to answer. 

Euclid, why w r ert thou born ? 

A classical man has left the following ; 

“ Fac ut possim demonstrate 
Quam sit dulce te amare, 
i Tecum pati, tecum flere, 

i Tecum semper • * * ' 

That an undergraduate should entertain a 
thought such as that contained in the next 
inscription that met my eye, may appear 
strange even to those who have undergone 
examinations. The wish is certainly a relic of 
school days, but in this case it has been duly 
qualified, and I see in it no great depravity 
The examiner having been delayed, the 
student has been suddenly inspired with the 
hope, that he may have an additional day or 
two to make himself more thorough in his 
work, and has recalled the following passage ; 

Utinam quidem ! 

Quod cum salute, ejus fiat, ita se defatigarit velim, 
Ut triduo hoc perpetuo prorsum e lectonequeat surgere. 

These are but a few of the many relics of 
past examinations. They are full of suggestive 
power, and to those who love to soliloquize will 
form fertile texts. In conclusion, I will give a 
few verses the work of some one about to 
graduate, in which is expressed very well what 
every graduate must have felt upon passing his 
last examination. 

“ In this old hall, how oft l ! ve sat 
In days gone by, a Freshman silly, 

To quail before the glance of Pat, 

And tremble at the voice of Billy. 

Not up ! for answers at a loss, 

Now I could give them in a caution ; 

Ah well ! perhaps mutamus nos 
As well as tempora mutantur.” 

“ Gone are the good old days indeed, 

Since here we sat, and swore, and giumbled. 

Our neighbours papers tried to read, 

And in our cribs for answers fumbled. 

No more we seek the friendly aid, 

And hope the answer ’ll be a loud one ; 

No more at eve, when punch is made, 

Drink we the health of every ploughed cne. ” 

“ Gone are the old companions true, 

Friends of many a grind and revel, 

Some gone abroad, at home a few, 

Some pious, more gone to the devil. 

Last of the band to day I aim 
But to display my legal knowledge, 

And for the last time sign my name, 

A student of the dear old College.” 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



77 



A MONTREAL REVIEWER ON KANT. 

“Sus Minervam docet.” 

Some time ago the Montreal Gazette publish- 
ed a series of pretentious essays by a writer 
who assumed the nom de plume of ‘Rubios.’ 
These essays have now been reprinted from the 
Gazette , and have appeared in a number of 
well-bound volumes, nine or ten of which have 
found their way to the McGill College Library. 
Our curiosity impelled us to examine these 
performances, and to ascertain the merit of this 
paragon, who is being so loudly advertised in 
in all our leading dailies. It is something so 
novel and unexpected to see the shop-keeping 
cits of Montreal turning their attention to 

abstruse metaphysical questions which have all 
% 

along seemed so foreign to their tastes, that we 
have thought it might interest our readers to 
know what philosophical lights our city bids fair 
to produce, and what literary ‘pabulum’ is offer- 
ed to the reading public. 

But before calling the attention of our reader 
to these productions, we would have him remem- 
ber that we do not regard them as in any way 
deserving of his notice ; our only excuse for 
adverting to them at all, being the fact that they 
have been so prominently obtruded on the 
public. 

It is not our intention to pass in review all 
these, for we should despair of being heard 
through. It will be sufficient to examine one 
of them (the smallest), which amply illustrates 
the author’s spirit and mode of procedure. We 
shall accordingly confine our remarks to the one 
which bears the modest title of “Supplement to 
Theology and Science, or the Rationalism of 
Metaphysics, being a Review of a book by 
Immanuel Kant, called Critique of Pure Rea- 
son, By Kuklos (John Harris).” The reader is 

at once offended at seeing a book of world-wide 
fame like the ‘Kritik’ of Kant, which revolution- 
ized thought in Europe and marks an era in 
speculation, impudently designated as ‘a book 
called Critique of Pure Reason’. Such an utter 
disregard of all literary convenances at the very 



outset, does not speak favourably for the author. 
One is forcibly reminded of Swift when he affirms 
‘ on the word of a sincere man that there is in 
being a certain poet called John Dryden, whose 
translation of Virgil was lately printed in a 
large folio, well-bound, and, if diligent search 
were made, for aught I know, is yet to be seen’; 
with this difference, however, that the ungraci- 
ous sarcasms of the great satirist on his contem- 
porary are relieved by an inimitable raillery and 
sparkling wit, while the would be castigator of 
Kant has no charms of style to redeem his in- 
competency in the treatment of the subject. 

Whatever may be the value of his contribu- 
tions to other branches of science, Mr. Harris 
is certainly not seen to advantage in his first 
attempt to dabble in Metaphysics. To under- 
stand his position and disposition, we must 
remember what, according to him, is the criter- 
ion for determining whether a science rests on a 
sound basis. We are told that the question to 
be asked is: Does this science rest on Natural 

and Revealed religion as its basis, and does it 
conform to the rules of Theology ? Mr. Harris 
will hear of no exceptions, and if the rules of 
Theology ran counter to the truths of mathe- 
matics, he would unhesitatingly renounce his 
faith in the latter. As may be presumed, he has 
found Kant guilty in this respect, and has un- 
dertaken to guard the reader from the pernici- 
ous influence of the Critique, by making overt 
all the ‘ unsense’ which it contains from begin- 
ning to end. Hear his opening lines : — “ In 
noticing this book, bringing it again, perhaps, 
prominently before the public, and calling at- 
tention particularly to certain passages in it ; we 
do so under protest. We protest against any 
supposition that the book in a correct sense 
belongs to science ; or that it has in itself any 
value to recommend its reconsideration by the 
public. On the contrary it has been, and still 
is, directly and indirectly, potent for mischief.” 
A little lower down, Mr. Harris feels sure ‘ that 
the perusal of a few pages by a person whose 
mind is in a naturally healthy condition, must 
usually produce a degree of mental nausea 
sufficient to protect the ordinary individual 
from direct injury.’ Mr. Harris, let us remark in 
passing, may rest assured that for a similar 



I 



78 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



reason his own effusion must remain perfectly 
harmless. 

After offering some interesting conjectures to 
explain how it is that such writers can ever exert 
an influence on any sane mind, our critic proceeds 
to ‘ an analytical examination of that which, as- 
suming the work to have any pretension to sci- 
entific arrangement, must be considered the 
commencement proper of the treatise,’ to wit, 
the chapter on “ Pure Reason as the seat of 
the Transcendental Illusory appearance,” of 
which a part is quoted (page 212, sqq. ed. 
Meicklejohn). To this Mr. Harris, appends 
his own elaborate elucidation, ‘for’, he adds, 
‘ as they are put before the reader, we do not 
think that they can be fairly considered to 
convey any definite, intelligible meaning.’ 

Now every one admits that the Critique is 
at times very unyielding, and that the careless- 
ness of Kant about style is often troublesome, 
but Mr. Harris could not have made a worse 
choice than this, as the passage which he 
denounces is perfectly lucid throughout, and 
does not present the slightest difficulty to an 
intelligent reader of Kant. Nowhere, perhaps, 
is the distinction so sharply drawn between the 
three all-important words : Understanding , 

Judgment and Reason , on the sense of which 
the whole of Mr. Harris’ discussion turns. 
Being unable to understand Kant’s meaning, 
he at once concludes that everybody else must 
be as dull as himself, and that the Critique 
conld not by any ingenuity, be made to yield the 
slightest sense. Would it not have been better 
for him if, before attempting to bespatter such 
a man as Kant, he had condescended to make 
himself acquainted with the meaning of the 
words employed by his author ? If he had only 
read the most elementary history of philosophy, 
in which the critical philosophy is presented in 
a more popular form, he would not have made 
such a display of ignorance as the present. 
But Mr. Harris prefers to ignore the Kantian 
sense of a word, and either ‘opines’ that it 
means so-and-so, or else refers to his great 
authority, Johnson’s Dictionary ! One can 
hardly divine what put such a mauvaise idee 
into his head. Why, of all dictionaries, he 
should select the one, which (as is well-known) 



is pre-eminently defective in philosophical 
definitions, and probably contains no greater 
blemish, must remain a mystery. It may be 
remarked, however, that, mutatis mutandis, 
there is some affinity between the philosophical 
tenets of Dr. Johnson and those of Mr. Harris, 
and that the refutation of Berkeley by the 
former is on a par with the attacks on Kant of 
the latter. With such a guide and by the light 
of his own intellect we are not surprised to find 
that he makes a fearful jumble of the three 
words above cited. It would be useless to 
flounder with him through several pages (pp. 
8-23,) of what he is pleased to call an ‘ exami- 
nation,’ since, as before mentioned, the whole 
question depends on the (Kantian) sense of 
these words of which he has admittedly not the 
slightest conception. 

We pass, then, to the foimal accusation v hich 
the reviewer brings against Kant. The offerees 
are enumerated as follows. 

j. Disregard of verbal science. 

2. Disregard of the rules of reason. 

3. Disregard of the primary laws of Theology 

As regards the first two counts, we have 

already seen what a competent judge Mr. 
Harris has shown himself. Besides, Mr. Har- 
ris saves us the trouble of considering these, 
by observing that it is the third offence which is 
all-important, since' from it the first and second 
primarily arise !’ It is ‘ the great offence — that 
which is fundamental to the others and out of 
which they have arisen !’ It is this which has all 
along been rankling in his mind, and his virtuous 
wrath now breaks forth. His horror is unaffected. 

What ! a man w ho had the presumption to 
examine the validity of a proof of the existence 
of God — who headed whole sections of his 
book thus : — “ On the impossibility of a 
cosmological proof of the existence of God,” 
“ Of the impossibility of a Physico-theological 
proof,” “Critique of all Theology based on 
speculative principles of reason !” To Mr. 
Harris the very idea that a man should employ 
his reason to verify and establish theology, is 
a blasphemy. One might very properly ask 
him what is theology. Is it something given ? 
Is it something which w'e apprehend indepen- 
dently of our reason ? Or is it something which 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



79 



the human reason has constructed out of the 
elements presented to it ? If so, how can 
the study of Theology be said to precede 
that of reason ? In short, Mr. Harris has 
gone back to the philosophy of the Dark 
Ages, and his watchword is that of the school 
men : credo ut intrfligam. In consequence of 
a total misapprehension of Kant’s sole aim, he 
has gone the length of doubting the sincerity 
of that philosopher’s profession of Christianity, 
and says it would have been better ‘ if Kant 
had professed pure Atheism, denied the exis- 
tence of God, disputed the facts of creation as 
such’ &c., &c. Can it be necessary to tell Mr. 
Harris that Kant’s sole purpose was just to 
establish Religion on a firm and immovable 
basis, and, by ridding it of all false support, to 
roll back the tide of scepticism which over- 
whelmed all Europe in his time ? Must we 
tell him that while Kant proved the validity of 
Religion from the nature of man’s Practical Rea- 
son, he most reluctantly abandoned the hope 
of making it accord with the freaks of his 
Theoretical Reason ? Need we say that it is 
precisely this feature in all Kant’s works, 
this ‘ ogling at theology’ in all jie says, which 
has given so much offence to the Empiricists ? 
But if Mr. Harris would only take the trouble 
of reading an author properly before presump- 
tuously criticising him, he w r ould learn that 
Kant’s religious and moral system is by far the 
purest which philosopher ever devised, and that 
Christianity never had a more loyal or more 
intelligent defender. 

But we have inflicted enough of Mr. Harris 
on our patient reader. We are well aware 
that to undertake the defence of Kant from 
such ridiculous attacks is quite otiose, and we 
fear that in taking up the gauntlet we have 
presented the same appearance as the doughty 
don Quixote when he laid lance in rest against 
the squadron of sheep. In writing thus at 
length, however, we have also had in view other 
critics of Kant, whose high standing gives them 
a stronger claim to our notice. Strange to 
say, after all that has been done of late in Eng- 
land by writers of eminence to correct the 
erroneous notions about Kant which have ob- 
tained there too long, there are yet those who 



cling to the old prejudice, and who raise the 
cry against Kant as a dangerous enemy of 
Religion. We are carefully put on our guard 
against the ‘ subtle scepticism' which pervades 
his waitings, and w r e are taught to look at Kant’s 
w'orks in a most unfair light. When one sees 
men of repute and position writing in such a 
strain, one cannot refrain from energetically 
protesting against this perversion of Kant’s 
doctrines. We find in such writers an entire 
misapprehension of his most glaring and best 
known dicta, and mis-statements which any 
tyro could correct. We have only this to say, 
that the sooner these moralists return to Kant, 
the better for them and for the interests of 
Religion. Germany has taught us many a les- 
son already, and if, instead of spurning her 
teaching and setting up crude systems which 
are powerless against scepticism, some of our 
metaphysicians would but accept a few more 
wholesome precepts from the same source, 
their speculations would stand some chance of 
living after them. 



Classics and Mathematics viewed with 

REFERENCE TO THEIR BEARING ON LIBERAL 

Education. 

Few subjects have so often been discussed 
in College Periodicals, as that of the relative 
merits of a Classical and a Mathematical 
training in the development of the human 
mind. Yet often as it has been discussed, the 
v riter feels that considering its importance, no 
apology is necessary for again treating the subj ect . 

In one of his conversations w r ith Dr. Johnson, 
Boswell remarks in reference to Gray’s “ Bard” 
that one of its chief merits is that the Poet 
plunges at once into his subject. Whether 
this be a merit in a poet or not, it is certainly 
a quality to be desired in a writer with only the 
limited space of the Gazette at his disposal, 
and we must therefore proceed at once “ in 
medias res.” 

The most frequent boast made in regard to 
the Science of Mathematics, is, that it is the 
most exact of all the sciences and the only one 
that leads to infallible conclusions. Now, if 
passing by the chain of deductions, we consider 



So 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



the objects to which the science is directed, we 
find that it is confined exclusively to space and 
to the relations of quantities. If we ask the 
mathematician how he arrives at these concep- 
tions of space, he can give no satisfactory 
answer, inasmuch as it is a question which is 
still a matter of dispute between the different 
schools of Philosophy. Therefore if Mathema- 
tics starts with principles that are unknown or 
which are mere hypotheses, we cannot see how 
its conclusions can be claimed to be infallible 
or even how it merits the name of a Science, a 
fact long ago observed by Plato in his Repub- 
lic. In consequence of the hasty assumption 
of first principles, we find in the Mathemati- 
cian — when he reasons on matters unconnected 
with his favourite subjects, that is in the wide 
field of every day probabilities, in which he 
cannot make use of his easy process of 
connecting symbols — “ a facility in the admis- 
sion of data, a proneness to avail himself of 
principles sanctioned by imposing names and 
a tendency to avoid all discussion which might 
lead to an examination of ultimate truths or 
involve a vigorous analysis of the ideas.” But 
a more immediate inference and one that 
bears more directly on the subject at issue, is 
that Mathematics merely exercises the under- 
standing in regard to quantity alone, and that 
it therefore educates the least number of our 
faculties, and that too in the feeblest manner. 
We shall find still further, that when studied too 
exclusively, it has a tendency to derange the 
mind, in proof of which we need only look 
over the long succession of incapables, and of 
the illustrious obscure, in the list of Cambridge 
Mathematical Wranglers. It offers likewise, a 
barrier against the imagination, to such a de- 
gree, that a Cambridge Wrangler was heard to 
say that he could never read Milton “because 
he proves nothing” ! ! 

The only beneficial influence to which this 
science can pretend, is the correction of a 
certain vice, and the formation of a correspond- 
ing virtue. 

The vice is the habit of mental distraction: 
the virtue, the habit of continuous attention. 
Therefore as far as regards Liberal Education, 
or in other words the general and harmonious 



development of all our faculties and capacities, 
Mathematics should hold a very subordinate 
rank. 

Classics have held and will hold deservedly a 
high rank in the estimation of educationalists. 
The habit of translation from the ancient wri- 
ters, evokes a clear appreciation of the distinc- 
tive characteristics of ancient and modern 
literature, and enriches the imagination with a 
perpetual influx of new imagery ideas and 
combinations. In it there is the difficulty of 
seizing the nearest equivalent phrase, of rend- 
ering the full spirit, or the beauty of the 
image without transgressing against the genius 
of the older tongue, the close adherence to the 
sense, the substitution of a kindred form of 
thought or word, all put to the severest test 
the resources of the student, and at once show 
his facility, taste, and judgment. 

It has often been said that too close a study 
of classical models often deforms our style 
Petrarch, Ariosto, Tasso, all composed in Latin 
without any sacrifice of pure idiomatic Italian 
for latinized forms of expression. The noble 
thoughts of the Paradise Lost, are perhaps 
occasionally cast in too antique a mould But 
if we turn to Oratory, was Canning under no 
obligations to his classical studies for the fasti- 
dious delicacy of his style, the high wrought 
tone of his speeches, and the harmony of his 
diction ? Did the pages of Cicero or Demos- 
thenes, cramp the bold unfettered simplicity of 

Fox ? 

Brougham used to relate that he composed 
the peroration of his celebrated speech, in 
defence of Queen Caroline, after reading 
Demosthenes through six times. 

Macaulay, the greatest writer of the present 
century, and master of a style which was hardly 
ever rivalled, except by De Quincy, in his 
Suspiria de Profundis — was the best classical 
scholar of his time. 

On the many beautiful images, thoughts and 
descriptions, which cluster like gems in the 
works of the ancient masters, we would like to 
dwell, but will merely make mention of a few 
which recur to our memory : the parting of 
Hector and Andromache, so well knowrn to 
all ; the concluding lines of the Prometheus 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



81 



\ inctus ; the conclusion of the Agricola ; and 
the magnificent passage where Clytemnestra 
describes to the chorus the progress of the 
watch-fires that announced to expecting 
Greece, the Fall of Troy, which makes one 
irresistibly think of Sir Walter Scott’s equally 
celebrated description in his “Lay of the Last 
Minstrel,’’ of the bale-fires which announced to 
the Lothians a Border inroad of the English 
forces. 1 he passage has been beautifully ren- 
dered by Bulwer in his Rise and Fall of Athens. 

A gleam — a gleam from Ida’s height, 

By the Fire-god sent it came ; — 

From watch to watch it leapt that light, 

As a rider rode the Flame, &c. 

W e can hardly think, that years of after toil 
and the cares of professional or public life, 
can wholly quench that “ divinae particulam 
aurae” with which one was inspired by the 
study of the classics in earlier years. 

“ Quo semel est imbuta recens servabit 
odorem Testa diu.” 

One who has once been thoroughly imbued 
with the spirit of Classic Literature, must have 
the turn and character of his thoughts and 
arguments influenced by it, and when he seeks 
to convey his thoughts in language, though the 
stream be drawn from “ the pure well of Eng- 
lish undefiled, " there may still linger in the 
draught some flavour of the Heliconian spring, 
and under the influence of Ancient Harmony, 
our rugged but noble language may sometimes 
mould itself into periods, in which may be 
entwined something of the melodious rhythm, 
and the incomparable introduction of those 
mighty masters of Thought and Language. 

If the few hints which are scattered through 
the preceeding remarks would lead the major- 
ity of our students to consider their education, 
as a harmonious whole, their College life not 
one of mere dull routine spent in irksome 
tasks, in ‘ poring over miserable books, and in 
“ cramming’’ for medals and prizes, but as a 
means to an end as a system of mental culture, 
as a training fitting us nobly to do and bravely 
to act, sans peur et sans reproche in “ life’s 
broad field of battle,” — the end and aim of the 
writer will be accomplished. 

D. C, R. 



The McGill Gazette. 

Wednesday, March ist, i8j6. 

It must afford matter for regret to all consci- 
entious students, that so many of those who 
fill our colleges, and halls of learning, should 
proceed to a degree, and in a short time after 
graduation show but a confused remembrance 
of their college studies. Professional students 
while keeping up those branches which their 
life occupations render necessary to them, soon 
become unfamiliar with the other subjects with 
which they were formerly engaged ; and those 
who have for their object in entering upon a 
college life, merely the acquisition of what is 
termed a liberal education, seem, many of 
them, to bid adieu at one and the same time to 
their alma mater , and to the subjects they 
are supposed to have learned by her aid. 

Now is it perfectly natural that a man, who on 
leaving college, commences the pursuit of a 
business or profession which requires all his 
time and energies, should forget many of the 
details of his old studies. His mind becomes 
so full of his present occupation, that all his 
knowledge, not in daily requisition, is soon 
stowed in out of the way corners, if we may be 
allowed the expression, and, when he suddenly 
wishes to recall some bit of information, he is 
disappointed to find himself unable to do so. 
This we say is perfectly natural. Still we do 
tlvnk that a man should remember more than 
the most general principles of the sciences with 
which he once endeavoured to familiarize 
himself. Now, though it is probable that as 
nothing in this world is perfect, the present sys- 
tem of education might be improved, (we do 
not pretend to suggest how) it can not be 
doubted, that students in a great measure have 
themselves to blame for the readiness with 
which they allow to escape them the knowledge 
which they spent so long a time in acquiring. 
Few students think enough independently upon 
their studies. They do not assimilate what 
they learn, and make it part and parcel of 
themselves. And now we come to the difficult 
question ; how shall one, the greater part of 
whose time is occupied in acquiring new facts, 
as a student’s time must be, find opportunity 
for reflecting upon and arranging in his mind 
the facts he has previously learned ? For unless a 



82 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



student has the power of acquiring facts very 
rapidly, by the time he has finished his actual 
learning, he is fatigued, and the last thing he 
will do is to begin to ponder over the work of 
the previous day. 

It seems to us, and the idea is r.ot original, 
that the students should form clubs for the 
discussion of the various questions which arise 
in the different classes they attend. The clubs 
should have but a small number of members, 
and there should be one for each main branch 
of study in the College curriculum. Thus 
let all students who are particularly interested 
in philosophy form a club and discuss the 
questions that occur from time to time in the 
lectures. The form of the meetings might be 
varied by some members occasionally prepar- 
ing an essay on the subject for the evening, 
and allowing the others to base their discussion 
on the various points touched upon in the 
essay. And there are many other ways in 
which the exercises might be modified so as 
to preclude all possibility of monotony. We 
have no doubt that such a club would be of 
great value and interest to the members. Again 
take classics. The members of the classical 
club might read seme interesting author, and 
discuss the meaning of disputed passages ; they 
could prepare essays on peculiarities of style, 
character, and sentiment displayed by the 
author under discussion. They might also 
read aloud merely the text of the easy authors, 
and the members would by this means become 
gradually familiarized with the sound of the 
classics as well as with the appearance of the 
words in a book, and would learn to think in 
the dead languages. Thus their progress 
in this branch of study would be materially ad- 
vanced. 

In the same manner clubs might be formed 
for the study of all the other branches. And 
as the courses of the club would generally be 
parallel, or nearly so, with the courses of 
lectures they would be of material service in 
preparing the ordinary class work, while they 
would be especially valuable as a means of 
preparation for the examinations. Now if stu- 
dents could be induced to undertake some 
such system as this, each member of a club 



would derive solid benefit from it. For as we 
have already said, the reason, in our opinion, 
that men so soon lose all but the very rudiments 
of a College education, is because they rarely 
have any incentive to reflect upon and make 
truly their own, the knowledge imparted to 
them in the lectures. The work of the lecturer 
is over when he ceases to speak ; the true 
work of the student only begins at this point. 
But at present almost any pretext affords suffi- 
cient ground for postponing reflection, and 
revision grows more and more difficult the 
longer it is deferred. 

We hope that clubs may be formed in 
McGill at as early a date as possible, if not 
this year, next year ; and we feel confident 
that, were they once put into active operation 
they would not soon become extinct. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GLEE CLUB 

The opening concert of this Club took place 
on the evening of Friday the nth. in the 
William Molson Hall. Notwithstanding the 
unfavourable weather which doubtless forced 
many who would otherwise have attended this 
concert to remain sheltered at home, there was 
present quite a large audience, and the Club 
should feel both complimented and encouraged 
to think that on such an evening they were able 
to draw so many to hear them. 

The University Glee Club was organized 
only some three or four months since, and in 
consideration of the short time available for 
preparation for a concert, we must deem the 
effort of last night, a decided success. High 
praise is due to Mr. Houghton the conductor, 
for the careful training which he has evidently 
bestowed upon his club. And we may add, 
has bestowed not in vain. The club sings fluent- 
ly and easily, well together and in good time. 
The quality of tone which was produced at the 
concert was generally very good, though at times 
it was not pure. The principal defects were 
such as must be attributed to want of time for 
preparation, and to comparative inexperience 
in singing together,' viz a want of contrast 
between thefianos and fortes , and occasional 
false notes. However, it would be demanding 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



83 



impossibilities of the conductor to require him 
to overcome such difficulties as these in the 
short time at his disposal ; and indeed in some 
of the numbers, as for instance in the two 
glees, “All among the Barley,” and “ Since first 
T saw your facJ\ both very well sung, he appear- 
ed to have nearly overcome them already. 

The solos were on the whole well done. And 
several well deserved e?icores were responded to. 
We must in fairness take exception to Mr. 
Houghton’s piano solo, which, possibly because 
it came so early in the evening that the perfor- 
mer had not warmed to his work, was not given 
so well as we expected it would be. He 
missed the sentiment of the composition, and 
played throughout in an exaggerated style. As 
an offset to this however his song from Sterndale 
Bennett’s “ May Queen ” was well rendered and 
he played his own accompaniment remarkably 
well. Mr. Cochrane’s solo would have given 
greater satisfaction had he not unfortunately 
commenced to play before he had [correctly 
tuned his flute. 

Still, when all is said, we must end, as we 
began by congratulating all the performers on 
the success of this concert. We feel sure that 
this Glee Club is the begining of a really excel- 
lent and valuable society of which all students 
of the University should feel proud, and which 
they should encourage and aid by every means 
within their power. 



UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY 

Feb. 4th — The resignation of Mr. Robertson 
as Secretary was accepted. A vote of thanks 
was passed to him for his services and Mr. F. D. 
Monk was elected in his stead. The following 
programme was then carried out : 

Reading — Mr. Henderson, Debate — “Is the 
acquisition by England of the Khedive’s stock 
in the Suez Canal likely to prove advantageous 
to Great Britain ? ” Affirmative : Messrs. Mac- 
Master and Trenholme ; Negative : Messrs. 
Hall and Monk. 

Feb. 1 2th — The subject for debate v\as : 
“ Should the Legislative Council of Quebec be 
abolished?” Messrs. M. Lonergan, R. D. 
McGibbon, and Trenholme spoke on the affirm- 



ative and Messrs. DeSalaberry and Corrigan 
sustained the negative. The Debate was ad- 
journed for one week. 

Mr. Hutchison then moved seconded by Mr. 
Robertson “ That this Society do declare itself 
dissolved.” 

This motion, notice of which had been previ- 
ously given, had excited much interest, as was 
evident from the large attendance. The mover 
in an able speech explained that his motive in 
making his motion was to reconstruct the 
Society on a purely political basis. Mr. Ro- 
bertson succeeded him adducing many cogent 
reasons for the adoption of the motion and was 
followed by Mr. C. H. Stephens on the same 
side. These speakers were frequently interrup- 
ted and at one time there was great excitement. 
An amendment was proposed but was declared 
out of order. An adjournment of the discus- 
sion for one week was moved, and a three 
months hoist proposed in amendment, both 
being lost. The previous question was then 
moved and carried in the affirmative, and then 
followed a motion for adjournment which was 
lost. Finally Mr. Hutchison’s motion was lost 
on a close division and the meeting adjourned 
at about half past eleven o’clock. Altogether the 
meeting was very interesting. The opponents 
of the motion made no remarks against it, pre- 
ferring to defeat it on technical grounds. 

We are glad to see that the discussion of 
Literary and Scientific subjects has not been 
rliminatedfrom the exercises of the Society, and 
we trust that in future these subjects may re- 
ceive more attention than has been accorded 
them in the past 

Feb. 1 8th — The debate on the abolition of 
the Quebec Legislative Council was continued. 
After much discussion the question was decided 
in the negative by a majority of one. 

Feb. 25th — Reading, Mr. R. W. Wilson. 
Debate : — Should members of Parliament be 
indemnified for their services ? 



ATHLETICS. 

We were much pleased to notice in the 
Toronto Nation of Feb. 18th an article on the 
above subject writen in a manly spirit and 



§4 



THE McGILL GAZETTE 



which, comming from the source it does, cannot 
but be of considerable influence in furthering 
the interests of athletics in Canada. 

The writer thinks, and thinks rightly, that 
athletics exert a great power in the supression 
of the vice of intemperance and he draws a 
comparison between the way in which billiard 
saloons and taverns on the one hand, gymnastic 
and athletic clubs on the other, are supported 
by the young men of our large cities. That 
the former are the best sustained is a fact which 
the Nation deplores, and which will be deplored 
by every right-minded citizen. The reason of 
this is ascribed to the fact that ‘there is no leisur- 
ed class among our young men who can devote 
themselves continuously, to the cultivation of 
athletic sports and give the tone to the pur- 
suits of the young men of the country generally,’ 
and the writer goes, on to say that to the 
employers of young men, and to the directors 
of schools and colleges we must look for the 
encouragement and fostering of sports and 
games. 

That the former of these, namely the employ- 
ers of youth do not do their duty in this respect 
is too well known to need any argument what- 
ever. Young men in mercantile pursuits who 
practice Cricket, Lacrosse, Football and other 
games, are too often looked upon by their masters 
as bestowing attention for athletics which should 
be given to money-making, etc., and so these 
sports are not only not encouraged and fostered, 
but absolutely frowned upon and to a certain 
extent deprecated. But if we enquire into the 
matter, it will invariably be found to be the case 
that a young man who does devote his leisure 
hours to cricket, boating or any other sports is 
generally much more able to do his daily work 
satisfactorily than one who, evading such pur- 
suits, spends his evenings or holidays in mani- 
pulating a billiard cue or in talking gossip with 
congenial spirits. In our schools and Uni- 
versities more attention is being yearly given 
to all sports, and the result is that a large per_ 
centage of medallists and honour men are those 
who have gained distinction on the Cricket field 
or at any other outside sports. These facts are 
e\ ident to all and we hope that the press gener- 
ally will follow the manly and spirited example 



of the Nation in giving support to the practice 
of athletics in Canada. A healthy tone will thus 
be given to the matter, and possibly more 
leisure granted to our young men for the enjoy- 
ment of outdoor exercises, which, more than any- 
thing else will develope in the Canadian youth 
vigourous constitutions and well regulated 
bodies and go far to attain that oft quoted but 
by no means effete summum bonum “mens sana 
in corpore sano.” 



CORRESPONDENCE. 

We have been requested by the conductor 
of the Glee Club to publish the following letter, 
received by him. 

Montreal, February 12th, 1876. 

Dear Sir, 

Like all your friends present at last 
night’s Concert, I enjoyed the successful enter- 
tainment which your club then provided. 

While there, the idea occurred to me, and in 
mentioning it to others I found it generally 
approved, that the time has come for the op- 
portune revival of the Founder’s Festival of 
past years, which has unfortunately fallen into 
disuetude. 

One chief cause of this was the difficulty then 
found in providing a programme of a character 
somewhat academic, while also varying an en- 
tertainment which, in its recurring provision in 
our time had, people said, become monotonous. 

With your club organized and capable of 
much, the task appears easy, the former diffi- 
culties disappear, and I beg, as an old graduate, 
and as a somewhat active member of too many 
Founder’s Festivals’ Committees, to recom- 
mend the matter to your consideration. 

If the idea be entertained I will be happy to 
give you such information of the former Festi. 
vals, modes of subscription, cost and other de- 
tails as may yield you the benefit of our ex- 
perience, of what success we had, and may 
enable you to avoid our errors. 

Believe me, 

Yours faithfully. 

R. A. R. 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



85 



ANNUAL REPORT TO THE VISITOR 

The annual report of the University authori- 
ties to the visitor, His Excellency the Governor 
General, has been published, and we deem it 
not out of place to make a few remarks upon 
its most interesting features. 

The first point to be noticed is the rapid 
increase in the number of the students attend 
ing the various Faculties of the University 
According to the report of last year, the total 
number of students during the session 1874-75 
was three hundred (300), while during the 
present session, there are three hundred and 
fifty two in attendance upon lectures. In the 
words of the Report, “ the increase of students 
in the University is very gratifying, and testifies 
to the increased desire for a liberal education, 
and to the growing repuation of the University 
not only in the Province of Quebec, but beyond 
its limits”. No one can doubt that the work 
done by the University is more than propor- 
tional to the finds at its disposal, and we ven- 
ture to express a hope that ere long the endow- 
ment fund may receive substantial additions. 
Mention is made of the great loss sustained by 
the University in the death of William Molson 
Esq. of Montreal. 

Mr. Molson was a member of the board of 
Governors, and owing to his munificent dona- 
tions at a time when most needed, his name 
will be forever indissolubly connected with the 
History of the University. To him we owe 
“ Molson Hall,” the museum, the chemical 
class-room, and the laboratory. By him, aided 
by his two brothers, the Chair of English Liter- 
ative was endowed, and, whenever funds were 
necessary for any specific object, he was a 
ready and liberal subscriber. 

Notice is also taken of the demise of Sir 
William Edmund Logan, LL.D., F.R.S., a fel- 
low of the University, and the benefactor to 
whom we owe the Logan Chair of Geology. 

After treating of the various changes, and the 
increased number of students in the Faculties of 
Law and Medicine, the reporttums to the Facul- 
ty of Arts, and first, mentions that important 
work, which is now, we believe, completed, 
viz, the publication of a catalogue of the Librar- 



ry. The want of such a catalogue has hitherto 
been much felt, and we feel certain that all those 
who may hereafter have occasion to make 
use of it, will feel grateful to those who 
have laboured so assiduously to bring about its 
completion. That portion of the Report which 
s peaks of the contemplated erection of college 
halls upon our own grounds, will be read with 
a great deal of pleasure by all those students 
who have occasion to board in the city, but 
without undertaking to dictate, we would ven- 
ture to suggest that the time has already come 
for the erection of such buildings. In treating 
of the Science Department, the Report to a 
great extent resembles those speeches from the 
Throne in which the country is promised a great 
deal of legislation that, in reality, is never ac- 
complished. We are well aware of the difficul- 
ties to be surmounted, before this department 
can be established on a satisfactory basis ; but 
there are some minor reforms to be instituted 
before the course can ever be popular with the 
students. We have repeatedly heard promises 
of the erection of a work-shop and of a separate 
building for the accomodation of the science 
students, but as yet nothing appears to have 
been done, nor have the more glaring abuses 
been rectified. However we have every confi- 
dence in the good intention of the authorities 
and hope the experience of the past will aid 
them in their plans for the future. 

Last, but not least, the Report refers to the 
restoration of the monument covering the re- 
mains of the Founder, and to the public spirit 
of Mr. R. A. Ramsay, M.A., in contributing the 
means necessary for the much needed repairs. 
Situated as the monument now is, it daily calls 
up to the students the memory of the man, to 
whom they owe an unbounded debt of gratitude, 
as the Founder of all the educational advanta- 
ges they are enjoying, and it will tend, if a 
monument is needed for such a purpose, to 
perpetuate his memory for all time to come. 
But now that McGill can number her graduates 
by hundreds we think it would be but a fitting 
testimonial to the memory of the Founder of 
our “ Alma Mater,” were the Alumni to erect 
a more pretentious and stately monument over 
the remains of James McGill. 



86 



THE McGILL GAZETTE 



PERSONALS. 

It gives us pleasure to record that Mr. H. 1 . Rain* 
ville, Professor of Civil Law has been elevated to the 
Judicial Bench. 

5 55, Mr. E. J. Hemming, B.C.L. is at present 
conducting an investigation into the woiking of the 
Prothonotaries’ Office in Montreal. 

>71, Mr. D. Macmaster, B.C.L. will have the honour 
of conducting the first case presented before the newly 
established Supreme Court of Canada. 

>62, Mr. F. E. Gilman, M.A., B.C.L., is a Candi- 
date for Municipal honours in Montreal. 

’63, Mr. L. Cushing, M.A., B.C.L., was lately 
presented with an elegant silver service at a compli- 
mentary dinner tendered him by the electors of Argcn- 
teuil County. 



A lady of the Senior class being asked by the profes- 
sor of physics the “duration of a spark,” replied, (per- 
haps from experience,) “One evening. E x. 

Mr. Varin, on behalf of the Law Students presented 
to Professor Rainville, an address of congratulation on 
his being appointed Judge. The worthy Professor 
made a suitable reply. 

The Catalogue of the books in the Library is now 
ready. 

Complaints are made by the Librarian, that the walls 
of the Reading-room are disfigured by students writing 
and scribbling on them. 

It is reported that the Janitor’s Christmas present w ill 
be handed to him about the first of March. 

Whenever we see a short gentleman with a tall lady, 
we are reminded that man was created a little lover 
than the angels.— Ex. 



ITEMS. 

The Harvard advocate complains that the number of 
Electives taken in Mathematics has decreased from 1 70 
in ’73-4 to 90 in ’75-6. 

Oxford and Cambridge played a match at Football 
last month the former winning by four goals to none. 

The N. Y. Nation has a circulation of 180 copies in 
Harvard College. 

It is not probable that Oxford and Cambridge will 
row at Philadelphia next summer. The difficulty is 
that between Henley (at which their presence is indis. 
pensable) and the Centennial regatta there is not time 
enough for a trip across the Ocean and training 
adequate for an international race. 

Durham College (Eng.) will not send a crew to Phi- 
ladelphia either. I 

The University at Berlin has four hundred distinct 
lecture courses . — Cornell Era. 1 

The Canadian Football Association has received a 
challenge from Harvard. If the challenge be not accept- 
ed by the Association, the Montreal club will take it up * 
on its own account. 

The Rink has failed ! After mortgaging the ice and 
allowing the Superintendent to take out his wages in 
skating, all debts have been paid. The ice was clear 
only four or five times and the venture will serve as a 
warning to future students. 

The truth of the adage “Our touch of nature makes 
the whole world kin,” was charmingly brought out 
that slippery morning, when a blue-eyed school girl sat 
down hard among her books, and remarked ‘d-n it ” Ex. 

Prof. — )giving a long sentence in English) “Please 
translate that into German, Mr. C.” Mr. C. “There 
are thiee words, I don’t know,” Prof. — “ Which three?” 
Mr. C. (who is disposed to be accommodating,) “ Oh ! 
any three you wish ” — Cornell Era . 



EXCHANGES. 

The Dalhousie Gazette , always contains well written 
and very readable articles. '1 he last number is no 
exception to the general rule. 

‘‘Mr. E. M. Senseney, late local editor of the Colle- 
gian, did not return after the holidays. * * * Mr. E* 
W. Bedford, is a talented young man, and we have no 
doubt but that he will make the local columns as 
interesting as they have been heretofore.'' Central Col- 
legian . 

If Mr. Bedford is the talented young man he is 
represented to be, we presume he will find this task 
sufficiently easy. 

The Eurhetorian Argosy confirms the old saying that 
appearances often deceive. Appearing as it does in a 
light pink cover, and possessing an exceedingly learned 
title, one might expect the Argosy to be a readable 
paper, but such is not the case. The Eurhetorian Ar- 
gosy is filled with the veriest trash badly printed, and 
altogether may be regarded as a failure. 

The Harvard Advocate makes its appearance under 
a new staff of Editors, Though traces of are visible, 
still the Advocate is well w r ritten. We observe that the 
subjects are not so exclusively athletic as under the old 
regime , and this must be regarded as a decided improve- 
ment. 

We very much regret that an unavoidable 
accident prevented the issue of the number of 
the Gazette due on the 15th inst. 

To make amends however, this issue is 
much larger than ordinary. We hope in- 
culgence will be extended to us by our readers 
and advertisers, and we on our part shallt 
endeavour to prevent the recurrence of such 
another accident. 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



87 



DEVLIN'S 



H at 



DEPOT, 



410 Notre Dame Street, 



MONTEEAXi. 



Gents Furnishing Goods. 

Students will lind it greatly to their advantage to go to 

FRANK B. STREET, 

St. James Street (adjoining Wesleyan Church) 

FOR THEIR 

SHIRTS, COLLARS , CUFFS, 

Underclothing, Scarfs, Glares, Handkerchiefs 

UMBRELLAS. CANES, &c 



if 



Only the BEST GOODS kept, and ONE trice charged. 

FRANK B. STREET. 



THE 

{janadiia j|eit and frodsee {j?,, 

SHERBROOKE, QUEBEC. 



The Subscribers are now prepared to take 
orders for the preparations of this Company, 
consisting of — 

PRESERVED PROVISIONS, In Tins 
ASSORTED SOUPS, in Tins 
POTTED MEATS, in Tins 
SALTED and SMOKED MEATS 
SAUSAGES in Tins and Skin 
And Sundry oilier DELICACIES, suitable for 
the Breakfast and Supper Table. 

McG. & B. can confidently recommend these 
Soods as equal and, in some cases, superior to 
the imported, and prioes are much lower. 

Full particulars in Price Lists, which may be 
had on application. 

McGIBBON & BAIRD, 

SOLE AGENTS, 

ITALIAN WAREHOUSE, 

221 ST. JAMES ST. 



ADVERTISE IN 

THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



WILLIAM SAMUEL 

3S7 HOTRE DAME STREET. 

AN EXTENSIVE STOCK OF 

fw $nt9, {sp I (law 

NOW ON HAND. 

College Trenchers, Arts and Medical Hat Ribbon, 
and a varied and extensive Stock of 

SILK, FELT AND OTHER HATS, 

in their Season. 

3G7 SOTJiE DAME ST. 




NOTE BOOKS, 

AND 

Stationery of all kinds, 



IN GREAT VARIETY, SUITABLE FOR 

MEDICAL AND OTHER COLLEGE STUDENTS 

ALSO TIIE BOOKS USED IN 

McEachran’s Veterinary College, 

AT 

HILL’S LIBRARY, 

666 DORCHESTER ST. 



88 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 






FINE ASSORTMENT 1 ' 

y 



Standard Library Books, 

LATEST EDITIONS 



ALWAYS IN STOCK. 



X/ , > 



BOOKS FURNISHED TO ORDER PROMPTLY, 

Catalogues Mailed Free. 

DRYSDALE & CO., 

BOOKSELLERS & STATIONERS, 

MONTREAL. 

McGill College Text Books 



’ GO TO 

106-J ST. JAMES STREET, 

IF YOU AVISII 

FIEST-CLASS 

PHOTOGRAPHS, 

AT A 

REASONABLE PRICE. 

* J. G. PARKS, 

PLIO TO GRAPIIER. 



COHEN & LOPEZ , 

IMPORTERS OF 



Dawson Bros. 

Deep always on hand a full supply of all the 
Text Books in use at the College, 

LSO 

STATIONERY IN ALL VARIETY , 




mint 




ars. 



FINEST BRANDS OF GENUINE 

b 

MEERSCHAUM PIPES, 
C. B. D. and other varieties of Briar Pipes, 

Russian and Spanish Cigarettes, $c. 

PRESENTATION PIPES 

Silver aNlouinted Engraved to Order. 



CORNER PLACE D’ARMES & ST, JAMES ST, 



t 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 
STUDENTS’ POCKET INK BOTTLES 

AND 

NOTE PARER AND EN PEL ORES 
Itamfcd with the University Die for the use of Students, 
FOR SALE AT 

159 ST. T-AIMITES ST. 1 . 

SUBSCRIBE TO 

i THE McGILL GAZETTE 



ALSO 

231 ST. JAMES STREET, 



OPPOSITE MESSRS. SAVAGE & LYMAN. 




G. BISHOP & CO., 



Engravers, 

JltlTHOGRAPHERS AND j^RINTERS, 

1G9 ST. JAMES STIIEET, 

MONTREAL. 

• 

Printed by J. C. Becket, 658 & 660 Craig Street. 



