Vol. XIII 



No. I 2 











20c. Sample Package. 



184 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, Guerin & Greenshields, 

AEVOCATZS, 

Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, &c,, 

Chambers: Exchange Bank Building, 

1728 NOTRE DAME STREET, - - MONTREAL. 

J. N. Greenshields. Edmond Guerin. R, A. E- Greenshields. 



PERTSON, FLEET k FALCONER, 

ADVOCATES, 

157 ST. JAMES STREET 
MONTREAL. 



ATWATER & MACK IE, 

Advocates, Barristers, Commissioners, k, 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 St. James St., Montreal. 

CHAPLEAU, HALL, NICOLLS & BROWN, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Commissioners, &c., 

147 St. James St., Montreal. 



Hon. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. 
JOHN S. HALL, Jr. 



ARMINE D. NICOLLS 
ALBERT. J BROWN. 



$1.50 per UTo. TJ3ST. 




w< 

CO 



Ml*-* 

c? 



The STANDARD o f the DOMINION. 

0 . MeEHTYRE & SOI, 

Fine Custom Tailors. 



SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 



53 BEAYEIi HALL HILL. 



Antiseptic Materials, Bandages, Etc, 

MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 

W. A. DYER & CO„ 
Pharnrailnl 1 Jlspeiiiir Clmlsl), 

14 & 16 Phillips Square. Cor. St. Catherine St., 

MONTREAL. 

Bandages, Roller, Muslin, 

Bandages, Cotton, 

Bandages. Absorbent, 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze, 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, Assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent, 

Cotton Wool, Borated, 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated, 

Cotton wool, Sublimated. 

Drainage Tubes, Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent, 

Gauze, Borated, 

Gauze, Carbolized, 

Gauze, Eucalyptol. 

Gauze, todororm, 

Gauze. Naphthalin, 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill; Inhalers, Celluloid, 

Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached, 

Jute, Absorbent, 

Jute, Carbolized, 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes; 
Sponges, Antiseptic; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain; Sponges, 
Gamgee’s Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies'. 




HEADQUARTERS 

—FOR— 

1 and College Text Bools ! 

DRYSDALE’S 

232 ST. JAMES ST. 

.?! EHICJM I. W'O It K $, BOOKS USED IJ\ r ./ /{ T COUHSE 
SCIENCE TEXT HOOKS , 

THE VWBIOUS TUKOI.OUIC.il. HOOKS. 

Full Assortment in Stock and Supplied at Rock Bottom Prices 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books, See., Sec., 

Y ALU E IN TO WN 



Stylo graphic Pens, Anti-Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty . 

w. DRYSDALE & CO., 

233 St. J ames Street, 

ALSO 

Branch Store 1423 St. Catherine St 




UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Vol. XIII.] McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, MARCH 24th, 1890. [No. 12. 




BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

J. F. Mackie, B.A., B.C.L., President . 
C. A. Barnard, B.C.L., Sec.-Treas. 

F. G. Finley, M.D. 

J. A. Elliot, Arts ’90. 

Peers Davidson, Arts * 90 . 

John Clark, Med. '91. 



EDITORS. 

J. A. MacPhail, B.A., Editor-in-Chief. 



S. W. Mack, Arts ’90. 

E. H. Hamilton, B.A.Sc. 

D. B. Holden, B. A., Med. '91. 



F.W. Hibbard, B.A., Law ’91 
A. H. Hawkins, Science *90. 
H. B. Yates, B.A. 



P. N. Walsii, Comp, Med., *90. 



The University Gazette is published weekly during the 
College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which rule 
no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

Published by The University Gazette Co., P. O. Box 
1290, Montreal, and printed by The Burland Lith. Co., 9 
Bleury Street. 



C O N T 

Editorials - 
Contributions - 
McGill News 
Societies - 

Poetry 

Correspondence 
Personals - 
Exchanges 

Between the Lectures 
College World 



NTS. 

PAGE. 

. 185-187 
187-189 
- 189-190 

190- 191 
190 

191- 192 
192 
192 

192 

193-194 



Editorials. 



McGILL U.A.A. 

In looking for the aim and object of the McGill 
U.A.A. in the printed “ Constitution and By- 
laws,” we find none stated. The Membership, Colors, 
and Badge are clearly defined. Possibly the aim and 
object is for members to wear the badge and colors. 
We are aware that an excellent programme of sports 
is carried out on one day in each year, and that they 
are managed most successfully, but we are of the 
opinion that the ideas of the organizers were much 
more comprehensive than this. They had in view 



the keeping in good order and enlarging the first 
track which was built under the supervision of a 
Science professor, and paid for by voluntary contri- 
butions of Science and Arts students. Another 
object kept in view was the building of a gymnasium 
on the College grounds, and a beginning was made 
by saving some money for that purpose. 

It was also intended that the Association would 
regulate all athletics in the University, and that 
every strident would pay the fee of $2, and thereby 
become a full member of all the College athletic clubs, 
and be entitled to compete in the sports. 

The organizers realized that all this could not be 
accomplished in. a day ; but they did their part, and 
expected that their successors would be sufficiently 
endowed with energy and progressive ideas not only 
to carry out the original ideas, but to bring the organi- 
zation to a state of perfection in ways which they did 
not see clearly. 

We are of the opinion that the President and Cap- 
tain of each affiliated club should be ex-officio mem- 
bers of the committee, and also that all accounts 
should be properly audited and published. 

We make the following clippings from the “ Har- 
vard University Catalogue,” as illustrating some of 
the ideas expressed above, and also in a previous 
article on “ University Athletics” : — 

COMMITTEE ON THE REGULATION OF ATHLETIC 

SPORTS. 

The President and Fellows established the Committee on the 
Regulation of Athletic Sports by the following vote, passed 
October 15th, 1888, to which the Overseers consented October 
Uth, 1888 : — 

“ Voted, — That the following be adopted as one of the stand- 
ing rules and orders of the President and Fellows and the Board 
of Overseers : — 

“ A Committee for the Regulation of Athletic Sports shall 
hereafter be annually appointed and chosen as follows : three 
members of the College Faculty, and three graduates of the 
College — these six to be appointed by the Corporation with the 
consent of the Overseers ; and also three undergraduates to be 
chosen during the first week of the College year by the majority 
vote of the following students : the Presidents of the Senior, 
Junior, and Sophomore classes, and a representative from each 
of the following athletic organizations : the Boat Club, the 
Cricket Club, and the Athletic, Base-ball, Foot-ball, Lacrosse, 
and Tennis Associations, who shall be called together for the 
purpose of making this choice by the President of the Uni- 
versity.” 



186 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



1890.] 



“ This Committee shall have entire supervision and control 
of all athletic exercises within and without the precincts of the 
University, subject to the authority of the Faculty of the Col- 
lege, as defined by the Statutes.” 

Under the authority thus conferred the Committee exercises 
a general supervision over the grounds and buildings devoted 
by the University to athletic sports and exercise ; over the times 
and places of athletic contests ; and over the physical condition 
of those engaged in them. The regulations framed by the Com- 
mittee forbid the employment of unauthorized persons as train- 
ers, and require intercollegiate and other contests to be held at 
such times and places as will cause least interference with study. 
No person is permitted to take part in athletic contests without 
a physical examination by the Director of the Gymnasium, and 
his permission so to do. No person who is not a student of 
some department of the University in full and regular standing 
is allowed to take part in any athletic contest or exhibition. 
The Committee chooses its own officers, and appoints a Gradu- 
ate Treasurer, who exercises supervision over the accounts of all 
athletic organizations using University grounds or buildings. 
The Committee makes a report annually to the President of the 
University. 



THE GRADUATES' SOCIETY. 

The Gazette is the organ of no party, nor is it 
designed to serve the interests of any individual or 
class. For this reason it is easy to speak on ques- 
tions affecting the University without having its 
motives misunderstood. At the last meeting of the 
Graduates’ Society the deliberations were important, 
and the discussion touched upon matters of vital in- 
terest. The reports of the Representative Fellows 
were given, the advisability of raising the standard 
of Matriculation, of bringing the teaching in the 
Affiliated Colleges up to the rank of that in McGill, 
the disposal of the Principal’s Endowment Fund, 
the needs of the Normal School — all these things 

O 

were discussed, and yet nothing has been done to 
give them practical effect, for neither the public nor 
the University has been made aware of the wishes of 
the graduates. The only executive business trans- 
acted was the nomination of Candidates to fill the 
positions of Representative Fellows, and in the 
Faculties of Medicine, Arts, and Law, the retiring 
officers were renominated, namely — Dr. Rodger, Dr. 
Kelley, and J. S. Hall, Q.C., M.P.P. In the Science 
Faculty, Mr. Frank Adams was nominated in opposi- 
tion to Mr. J. H. Burland. There is, of course, no 
question about the value of both of these graduates. 
Mr. Adams is a man of talent and scholarship, with 
a rare practical experience, and possessed of those 
qualities of intellect and sympathy that go to make 
a teacher. No one could have stated more clearly 
than himself the reasons why he should not be chosen. 
He pointed out that he was a member of the teaching 



staff, a body which is already abundantly represented 
on the Corporation Board ; that he would be unable 
to discharge the duties of the position, owing to his 
being absent in Europe for the half of each year, and 
that the work had been done by the retiring Repre- 
sentative in such a way as to commend him to the 
confidence of the graduates. That the Graduates’ 
Society took his view of the case was evident from 
the vote that was given. 



When The University Gazette was issued weekly 
it was found difficult to provide for a proper super- 
vision of all the matter sent in for publication, since 
the Editors were unable to meet twice a week. The 
need for additional care being felt, an agreement was 
signed by the Editors, providing that nothing should 
be inserted without submission to a Revising Com- 
mittee. In spite of this precaution, items considered 
objectionable were allowed to appear since the agree- 
ment, and it was alleged that an Editorial, mentioning 
the precautions taken, had been suppressed, both of 
which were laid to my charge. A Committee of 
Editors was appointed, confirmed by the Directors, to 
investigate the case. The report has been submitted. 
It shows, by a statement from the publishers — 1st, 
that the unauthorized items were inserted by mistake, 
and without the authority of any Editor, and that 
they alone were to blame ; and, 2nd, another writ- 
ten statement, that the Editorial referred to “has 
always been, and still is, in possession” of the Editor 
who wrote it, and never was submitted to a meeting. 

John A. MacPhail, 

Editor in- Chief. 



Some discussion arose last week as to the right of 
a professor to extend his Examinations over subjects 
which, generally speaking, do not come under his 
special department. Students should recognize that 
there is no hard and fast line between Anatomy, 
Physiology, and Histology, and they should learn 
from the lectures on these subjects the close interde- 
pendence that exists between them. Naturally, men 
object to their burdens being increased, but it is 
never well to find fault with examinations. McGill 
is taking a wider view of the study of Medicine than 
the mere passing of examinations, and when a profes- 
sor makes a further attempt to unify the course, it is 
unfortunate that students do not all see that it * is in 
their own interests. 



1890.] 



The tablet, in memory of the late Dean of the 
Medical School, erected by the Students, was put in 
place, in the main corridor, last week. It is an ex- 
cellent piece of workmanship, and bears the following 
inscription : — 

To 

The Memory of 
Robt. Palmer Howard, 

M.D., LL.D., 

Dean of the Faculty, 

And Professor of the 
Practice of Medicine of 
McGill Medical College. 

Died March 28th, 1889. 

This tablet was 
Erected by the Students 
In Medicine, of the Years 
1890-’91-’92-’93. 

In comparing the courses in McGill and Toronto 
Universities, suggested by a communication in last 
issue, the evidence was so overwhelmingly in our 
favour that we did not think it necessary to mention 
the course in Physiology. This course alone is 
sufficient to maintain the reputation of the University 
on account of the effectiveness of tho work done, and 
the eminence of the Professor in original research 
and this publication of the results he has arrived at, 
in recent medical literature as well as in the more 
permanent form of a text- book, which should be in 
the hands of every student; and, in fact, is possessed 
by all who are anxious to keep abreast of the modern 
teaching of physiology. 

We take it to be a hopeful sign, and suggestive of 
the new life that is springing up among McGill men, 
that Societies of her graduates are being formed in 
other cities. In the Ottawa Valley there are resident 
about eighty graduates, and they have banded them- 
selves together for social intercourse and to further 
the interests of their Alma Mater. All that the 
graduates of McGill need is organization, and these 
Societies will be productive of much good in keeping 
alive and fostering into practical activity the good- 
will we all entertain tow ird our University. 

That the liberality which should characterize the 
nineteenth century has not yet been attained, is illus- 
trated by the opposition which is met with to the 
higher education of women, and the refusal, in many 
instances, to grant equal facilities to both sexes. An 
instance of this nature occurred the other day, when 
the ladies of the Donalda Department gave a gymnastic 
entertainment. Why did they not invite the gentlemen 
students, as the Football Club invite the ladies? 



187 



In our last issue we published a letter of resigna- 
tion from Mr. Hibbard, in which he stated his reasons 
for resigning his position as editor representing the 
Law students. 

The editors of The University Gazette very much 
regret the action taken by one who was a most efficient 
member of the staff, who did much valuable work. 
We hope that some means can be devised whereby 
the Board will continue to receive his advice and 
support. 

The School of Comparative Medicine has, by de- 
grees, worked itself up to a position when it was 
thought worthy to rank with McGill Medical School. 
The story of its amalgamation has already been told, 
and now the last bond is complete. The students of 
Comparative Medicine have appointed one of their 
number, Mr. Walsh, their representative editor, and 
The Gazette extends to him a warm welcome. A 
generous support is looked for from this manly little 
Faculty. 

In the last issue, under the heading, “McGill 
News,” an item appeared purporting to give a Stu- 
dent’s Experience in Athletics. It should have been 
enclosed in quotation marks, as the article was not an 
original contribution, and as such had no bearing on 
the teaching of athletics or any other subject in McGill. 



itontributions. 

THE FUTURE OF CANADA. 

Canada is the eldest daughter of the greatest Empire 
of the world. She is the fullest grown member of 
the family, the one first come of age, and gone into 
life as a nation ; and she has in her young hands the 
solution of all those questions which must so interest 
every true Briton, proud and careful of the acquisi- 
tion of British discovery and conquest. A future, great 
and noble in itself, and far-reaching in its results 
awaits her, if she but rise to her opportunities. “ She 
is Imperial in herself” we think, as the number, the 
extent, and the lavish natural wealth of her Provin- 
ces, each not less that some Empire of Europe, rise 
in our minds ; as we picture her coasts and her 
gulfs, and her islands, on the Atlantic on one side and 
the Pacific on the other ; her four thousand mile 
panorama of noble rivers, wild forests, ocean-like 
prairies, her towering snow-capped Rockies, waking 
to the tints of sunset in the West; in the East her 
hoary Laurentians, oldest of hills. She has the 
richest extent of fisheries, forests, wheat lands, and 
fur regions in the world ; some of the loftiest 
mountain-ranges and vastest rivers, the healthiest and 
most beautifully-varied seasons. 

She has the best ten-elevenths of the Niagara Falls, 
and the best half of the inland seas. Her population 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



188 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1890 . 



is about five millions. Her valley of the Saskatche- 
wan alone, it has been scientifically computed, will 
support eight hundred million souls. 

That such a land has great possibilities before her, 
is unquestionable, it is an axiom. Her future great- 
ness rests now with her people, and they, if anything 
more than this favored land provides were needed, 
have sufficient tradition and history as their legacy, to 
beget a nation of patriots and enthusiasts. 

“ We hold amongst our best possessions still 
E’en here, in new and northern lands — a past, 

We have not many ruins, it is true — 

But what we have we cling to, we would keep 
All dear tradition.” 

If we look back to the Canada of the 15th century, 
we find it peopled only by a race of savages, called 
afterwards Indians, a painted and feathered race, 
warring to the knife among themselves ; wielding, in 
place of the plough, the tomahawk, and but occas- 
ionally smoking the peace pipe. It was to this 
country that there came out, a little later, as explor- 
ers, hunters, traders and missionaries, many of the 
noblest and best of old France. These, the ancestors 
of our own fellow countrymen explored, claimed and 
conquered this “New World,” from the St. Lawrence 
to the gulf of Mexico. They it was by whom was 
discovered the source of “ La Belle Riviere,” and by 
whom were first sung the praises of rhe beautiful and 
fertile Ohio valley. It was they also, who left as a 
heritage to their children the memory of such men 
as Breboeuf, Lalement, and Dollard, and who first 
brought to the savages the knowledge of God. 
Following close in their wake came our own fore- 
fathers, and then commenced that war of the races, 
which unfortunately has not yet died out. This war 
was however at that time an open war, until the 
memorable 1760, when Canada became a British pos- 
session. Then followed a time of comparative peace, 
when men were able for a moment to lay down the 
sword for the spade and axe, and to tax Mother Earth 
to her utmost. There is something inspiring in the 
thought of our forefathers literally hewing out homes 
for themselves in this “ land of the forest and the 
lake, land of the rushing river,” enduring cold, 
fatigue, and hunger with Spartan courage and deter- 
mination, in order to leave to their children, if not 
luxury, at least comfort j of their guarding their 
homes against traitorous friends and open foes, and 
cleaving, through thick and thin, to the Mother 
Country. Surely love for our own country and loyalty 
to England ought to be begotten in us, when we 
remember the United Empire Loyalists, who, rather 
than be faithless to the mother who had nourished them 
when children, left homes of comfort, and even of 
luxury and elegance, and trudged many weary miles, 
— fathers, mothers, children, with the few goods and 
chattels they could carry,— to the wild forest lands of 
Canada, there to build up their homesteads under the 
beloved Union Jack. 

The story of these men alone ought to rouse us to 
greater zeal for our country, for patriotic we must be 
it any national greatness is to be attained. Not only 
must there be no Themistocles among us, ready to sell 



his country for talents of silver, but there must be indi- 
vidual effort for the universal good. Each must be : 

“Waiting to strive a happy strife, 

To war with falsehood to the knife, 

And not to lose the good of life — 

In some good cause, not in their own 
To perish, wept for, honored, known, 

And like a warrior overthrown ; 

Whose eyes are dim with glorious tears 
When, soiled with noble dust, he hears 
His country’s war-song thrill his ears.” 

The present is an earnest of the picture, we are 
to-day sowing the great “ To Be,” and therefore we 
must bestir ourselves first individually and then 
nationally. 

* * * * 

As a nation too, we have the peculiar advantage 
(for whatever the disadvantages may be there is a 
peculiar advantage) of being one people in Govern- 
ment, yet two nations, originally different, not only 
in language and religion but in thought, action, and 
mode of life ; the one cherishes the traditions of 
merry England as her very own, the other has 

“ Strange visions of a land beyond the sea 
The quaint old towers and farms of Normandy.” 

The result of this vision and intermingling of two 
nations, is that the resulting one nation had doubled 
her resources in her people j she must continue in 
herself the best genius and talents of both, just as we 
English proudly note the richness of our language, 
because it is derived from two distinct sources, so 
ought we to rejoice in the richness of our nation, since 
she can gather within herself the best of two. 

Now having, both on account of her land and of 
her people, the best possibilities within her, how is 
Canada going to carry out these ? As regards form 
of government, there seem to be three from which to 
choose Imperial Federation, Independence, and An- 
nexation. The last is not to be thought of for more 
than a moment, as we “ love honor more than ease 
oi gold. Surely our dead would rise up against us, 
they would tell us that “ Canadian blood has dyed 
Canadian soil, for Britain’s honor that they deemed 
thmr own.” When we recall our admiration for the 
U. E. Loyalists, and our scorn for their faithless 
brethren, we drop the subject of Annexation 



Should we break the plight of youth, 
And pledge us to an alien love ? 

No ! we hold our faith and truth, 

1 rusting to the God above. 

Britain bore us in her flank, 

Britain nursed us at our birth, 

Britain reared us to our rank, 

’Mid the nations of the earth.’ 

Stand, Canadians, bravely stand, 
Bound the flag of fatherland ! ” 



in our double privilege of being British subjects^and 
>et Canadians; ^n bemg part and parcel of, despite 
all Republics, the freest Empire of the earth. 

Imperial federation is the only scheme to bead- 
vocated It is, id the first place, and looking at it 
from the highest point of view, would be one sten 
towards that one far-off divine event— one God one 



1890.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



189 



law, one element, towards which the whole' creation 
moves” the Federation of mankind. 

Free Trade is just now greatly agitated. In join- 
ing Britain we join the country of the world that has 
Free Trade, and so also obtain it. 

What is Canada going to do to heal the feud be- 
tween her two sets of children 1 Union is strength, 
and though we have won outward union, yet, deep 
down in the heart, there is bitter jealousy and striv- 
ing, often given open expression. This must be up- 
rooted. We must see — 

“ These twain upon the skirts of Time 
Sit side by side, full-seasoned in all their powers, 
Dispensing harvest, sowing the To Be, 

Self-reverent each, and reverencing each, 

Distinct on individualities, but like each other, 

E’en as those who love.” 

Anything that can help on this is to be eagerly 
seized upon, and, therefore, in the near future of 
Canada, there lies the abolition of separate schools 
(which have probably been one of the chief means of 
widening the already existing breach). Two races of 
Christians, still not loving one another, yet — strange 
anomaly ! 

There must be wrought, before they can be one — 

“ With hurnau hands, the creed of creeds. 

In loveliness of perfect deeds, 

More strong than all poetic thought ; 

Which he may read who binds the sheaf, 

Or builds the house, or digs the grave.” 

Further, education can only be neglected on our 
peril. Education must become compulsory ; all must 
be taught, at least enough to let them know how 
much there is to learn. Ignorance and vice are twin- 
sisters, who walk in company. If we educate the 
people we help to make them good. We would 
echo our Laureate’s words — 

“ Let knowledge grow from more to more, 

But more of reverence in us dwell, 

That mind and soul according well, 

May make one music as before.” 

Then, too, in the future of Canada, not only must 
Education be more general, but more varied. Manual 
training must be given in our public schools. 

It may be too much, and even not desirable, to 
hope that in the future we may be not only as one 
people, but speak one language, but at least, in the 
North-West, where there are so few French, we look 
forward to the abolition of the Dual Language system 
in Government affairs. We also look forward to 
having with us, as of us, the Island of Newfound- 
land, that stands as a sentinel at the entrance to the 
Gulf. The people of this Island, perhaps from the 
fish diet — said to beget brains — are hardy, brave, 
intellectual, and independent above any other divi- 
sion of this British possession. Their union with 
us would give us greater stamina, and them greater 
breadth and scope. 

One thing, which above all others must be carefully 
attended to, if our country is to be righteous among 
the nations, is the class of our immigrants. This, so 
far, has been sadly neglected, and with great peril to 



ourselves, individually and nationally. No patriotic 
spirit can be inculcated in our people, if every dad 
there are imported into the country the scum any 
filth of the old and wicked European cities. Our 
lands are free to all who come to work and help us 
to build up a strong, free nation, but should not be, 
on the plea of self-preservation, if on no other, to 
those who come as mere parasites or worse. 

We have mines to be worked, fields to be harrowed, 
furrowed, and sown, land to be rendered accessible 
to all by railroads, rivers to be bridged, and, above 
all, rich and populous cities to be built and guarded. 
Only those who come to help us thus, and to further 
the interest of Canada as a nation, should be allowed 
to enter. 

Here, again, would Imperial Federation aid us, 
for we would then have Britain’s power — for we 
would be Britain. 

Our future seems to hinge on this ; it ushers in 
the blessings we desire, and with it we might say — 

“ Then reigns the coming bridal of the world, 

Then comes the statelier Eden back to men. 

May these things be.” 

H. 



flflcSill News. 



At the students’ meeting of the Canadian Society 
of Civil Engineers, a very interesting paper on Brock- 
ville’s sewer system, was read by the author, C. H. 
Ellacott. 

Dr. Wyatt Johnston was selected to deliver the last 
lecture in the Somerville Course, and Dr. Ruttan the 
previous one. The reason this Course is valuable and 
popular is because the lecturers are men who can 
speak with authority on the subjects they choose. 

The graduates of McGill residing in the Ottawa 
valley, who now number about eighty, have taken 
steps to found a society to promote university 
interests. The following memorial was prepared, 
signed by Sir James Grant, M.D., Henry P. Wright, 
M.D., R. H. W. Powell. M.D., H. Beaumont Small, 
M.D., George C. Wright, B.A., B.C.L., John R. 
Church, M. D., Robert A. Klock, B. A., B. C. L., S. 
Rondeau, B. A., R. W. Ells, LL.D , R. G. McCon- 
nell, B. A., A. P. Low, B. Ap. Sc., James McEvoy, 
B. Ap. Sc., Henry M. Ami, M.A., and P. D. Ross. 

To Jeffrey II. Burland, B. Ap. Sc.. F. C. S., Representative 
Fellow of McGill University : 

As there has been a growing desire amongst the graduates of 
McGill University resident in Ottawa and its vicinity for a 
a number of years past to form themselves into a graduates’ 
society, for the advancement of the interests of their Alma 
Mater and the promotion of social intercourse, we the under- 
signed graduates hereby request you to call a meeting of all 
the graduates of McGill residing in the Ottawa valley at an 
early date with the object of forming such an organization. 

Mr. Burland has taken steps to have such a meet- 
ing called, and the result will be watched with 
interest by the graduates everywhere. 



190 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1890 



MEDICAL GERMS. 

A few more days of suspense, and M.D. or MwD 
will be our titles. 

* 

* * 

It is pretty hard, after half an hour’s pounding on 
a man’s chest, the beads of sweat rising on your brow, 
to find out that there was nothing wrong with him. 

* 

* * 

The majority of us found our Waterloo in the 
matter of Eye and Ear work. Large drafts were 
made on the imagination, and the interview was, on 
the whole, a painful one. 

. * 

^ * 

It has been suggested that one of the Professors 
write a book on the “ Pleasures of the Imagination.” 

* 

* * 

The Medical members of the Football Team have 
presented an engrossed copy of this year’s photo, to 
the Reading Room. 

* 

* * 

Mulligan and Patten will, P.V. (professores vol- 
entes), be lacking to the Team, next year. Teddy 
says he is bound to have an 31. D., even if he has to 
go mule driving for it. 

* 

* * 

It is marvellous what a pandemonium of sounds 
one hears in a man’s chest, when Dr. Dick’s eye is on 
him. 

* 

* * 

It would be hard to imagine a more perfect method 
than that adopted this year, for testing a man’s know- 
ledge in Clinical work. 

* 

* * 

The Hygiene results were a great surprise to “ those 
who knew all about it ” beforehand. 

* 

* * 

The Graduating Class photo., by Martin, is a very 
pretty piece of composite work. 

* 

* * 

It really seems as if five years were not too much 
to spend in Medicine. This is not a request to be 
“sent up” for another year. 

* 

* * 

“ On dit,” that Bishops is to open its doors to ladies 
next session, and that a number of the Kingston 
students will patronize it. 

* 

* * 

The Lady Supt. has invested the nurses with blue 
bows. Some of them would almost prefer auburn 
or even dark beaus. 

* 

* * 

Dr. Vipond, class ’89, has already taken the Edin- 
burgh degree, and is now going up for his London 
Exam. 

“ Nix Forstay.” 



Poetry. 



[For “The Gazette. "] 

THE NEW YEAR'S NIGHT OF AN UNHAPPY MAN. 
(Freely rendered from the prose of Jean Paul Friedrich Richter). 

Once on a time— it was the New Year's night— 

An old man at a window stood, and gazed 
Upon the myriad-eyed and changeless Heaven, 

And on the pure white earth, whereon there sighed 
No human soul so hopeless as his own. 

In mute despair, he looked upon his grave I 
The snows of age, and not the green of youth 
Shrouded its blackness: and that woeful man 
Out of his whole rich life now thither brought 
Nought but a load of follies, sins, and cares — 

A wasted frame, a desolated heart, 

And lone old age embittered with remorse. 

And now, like ghosts, the bright days of his youth 
Hover about him : and he stood once more 
At Life's dread cross-road, by his father's side. 

The righthand pathway led by sunny tracks 
Of virtue to a Paradise of peace, 

Full of glad harvests and of glorious light ; 

But the left strayed through labyrinths of vice 
Down to a dismal, poison-dropping cave, 

Where serpents darted 'mid the sultry damps. 

And now, those serpents writhed about his breast — 

Those drops of poison paralyzed his tongue — 

He learnt the error of his choice— too late ! 

Crushed by despair, he sobbed aloud to Heaven, 

“ ( Hve back my youth, 0 God ! and oh ! my Sire, 

Place me, once more, upon that branching road, 

That, once again, my pathway I may choose.'' 

In vain — his father and his youth were gone ! 

He saw strange lights that danced above the march. 

And died within the grave-yard — and he sighed, 

“ Those are my sinful days." He watched a star 
Shoot from the skies, and glimmer to its fall, 

To be extinguished on the gloomy earth. 

“ That star is I," he groaned, and fell Remorse 
Gnawed at his wounds again with serpent-teeth. 

Suddenly, music for the new-born year, 

Like distant church song, floated from a tower. 

His soul was stirred— he gazed around the earth, 

And mused upon the playmates of his youth, 

Who, happier now, and holier far than he, 

Were teachers of the world — world-honoured men — 
Fathers of loving children— and he cried : 

** I too, my Sire, might now have happy been. 

Thy New Year's bidding had I erst fulfilled." 

He bowed his head— hot penitential tears 
Streamed o’er the snow : again, he softly sighed. 

Hopeless, unconscious almost: "Come again ! 

0 my lost Youth, come back ! " It came again — 

For, on that strange and solemn New Year’s Night 
He had but dreamed. His Youth was left him still. 

His errors only had not been a dream. 

With grateful soul he poured his thanks to God, 

That he was spared, still young, to turn aside 
From Sm s foul ways, and follow the fair path 

1 hat leads the pilgrim to aland of peace. 

Turn thou aside with him, 0 wayward youth I 
Who standest, doubting, on the road of Life. 

His ghastly dream was pictured for thy sake : 

If e'er, grown old, in anguish thou shouldst cry, 
tome back, once more, 0 vanished Youth, come back ! ” 
ihe golden years can never more return. 

Geo. Murray. 



Societies. 



GRADUATES’ SOCIETY. 

A meeting of the Graduates’ Society was held on 
Saturday night, 8th March, in the Law Faculty rooms 
in the Iraser Institute, to elect the candidates to re- 
present the graduates on the corporation board. This 
boaid consists of forty five members of whom the 
graduates elect eight, each holding office for two 
years and four retiring each year. The retiring mem- 
bers this year are Dr. Rodger in medicine, Dr°F W 
Keliey in Arts, John S. Hall, M. P. P., in law,* and 
Jeffrey H. Burland, B. Sc., in science. 



1890 .] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



191 



Mr. C. J. 1 leet, the president, occupied the chair, 
and at his right was the secretary, Mr. W. Dickson, 
B.A. Amongst those present were Dr. Stewart, Dr. 
Mills, Dr. Cameron, Dr. Bell, F. Topp, B.A., E. S. 
Hamilton, B. Sc., J. R. Dougall, M. A., Frank Adams, 
B. Sc., J. H. Burland, B. Sc., W. T. Sproule, B. Sc., 
W. T. Skaife, B.Sc., Professor McLeod, M. Hutchins, 
B. C. L., W. Patterson, M.A., J. A. MacPhail, B. A., 
Dr. Kelley and Mr. Falconer, B.C.L. 

lhe representatives gave an account of the work 
they had done, namely : Mr. J. R. Dougall, M. A., 
for arts, Mr. Hutchinson, Q.C., for law ; Dr. Mills, for 
medicine, and J. H. Burland, B. Sc., and W. T. Skaife, 
for science. All the reports appeared to be satisfact- 
ory, detailing the work done and suggesting improve- 
ments they thought necessary. 

1 he disposal of the principal’s endowment fund was 
then considered. This was a fund subscribed by the gra- 
duates to endow' the principal’s chair and now amounts 
to $3,500, but it is superseded by the Frothingham 
endowment of $40,000. Sir William Dawson wrote 
suggesting that it be set apart as a fund for aiding 
students in financial need during their course, or that 
the proceeds be devoted to founding a teaching 
fellowship. After some discussion the matter was 
postponed till the annual meeting in April. 

The nomination of candidates was then proceeded 
with. In medicine, Dr. Rodger was renominated ; in 
arts, Dr. F. W. Kelley, and in law J. S. Hall, M.P.P. 
For the science representative Mr. W. T. Sproule 
nominated Mr. Frank Adams, and Mr. W. Patterson, 
M.A., renominated Mr. J. H. Burland. Mr. Adams, 
in a generous speech, stated that he would prefer to 
have his name withdrawn, urging as a reason Mr. 
Burland’s good work in the past and his benefactions 
toward the University. He also said that the Repre- 
sentative fellows were intended to represent the 
graduates and not the teaching body of which he was 
a member, and that he would be unable to attend to 
the duties as at least half of every year would be spent 
abroad. His friends insisted on the nomination ; 
Professor McLeod and Dr. Mills were appointed 
scrutineers ; the ballot was taken and Mr. Burland 
was declared elected as the choice of the Graduates’ 
society for Representative fellow for the faculty of 
science. 

It was resolved by vote to extend to the University 
of Toronto the sympathy of the Graduates’ Society in 
the loss of their University buildings . — Montreal 
Gazette. 



Itorresponbence. 

CLUB HOUSE DINNERS. 

On my recent, and only, visit to the Club House, 
my thoughts ran back to the last time I went “ for a 
tramp over the mountain.” 

We went into an hotel and passed a bar to a room 
up-stairs where coffee was served, after which songs 
and dances were in order \ but at the same time the 
easiest thing to do, and what was expected, was to 
take a drink at the bar. I remember seeing a fine 
looking fellow at the bar, who has since been ruined 



by drink. My thoughts led me to other occasions, 
and it occurred to me that the facilities for an even- 
ing’s enjoyment at the Club House are so varied that 
the usual class and faculty dinners, at hotels licensed 
to sell intoxicating drinks, should be replaced by 
dinners at the Club House. Of course it would be 
necessary to become members, but this might be done 
for a lump sum, which would be small for each 
individual. We might then have a McGill University 
night, and one night for each faculty each month. 
The expense would probably not be much greater 
than for the usual faculty dinners. 

Athlete. 



GREEK LETTER SOCIETIES. 

In answer to the Editorial on Greek Letter Societies, 
which appeared a few weeks ago in The Gazette, I 
would like to place before your readers the following 
address by the Rev. Dr. Julius H. Seelye, D.D., 
president of Amherst University, to the Alpha Delta 
Psi Fraternity at the celebration of its 50th anniver- 
sary, a society of which Dr. Seelye was not a mem- 
ber : — 

Every one familiar with the facts in the case must judge 
favorably of the Greek Letter Societies in Amherst College. 
Without a doubt they exercise a wholesome energy both upon 
their individual members and upon the College. Combina- 
tion is strength, whether with young men or old, and w T here 
men combine for good ends better results may, of course, be 
looked for than when the same ends are sought by individuals 
alone. 

Now the aim of these societies is certainly good. They are 
not formed for pleasure simply, though they are one of the 
most fruitful sources of pleasure in a student’s college life. 
Their first aim is the improvement of their members — im- 
provement in literary culture and in manly character. They 
are all of them literary societies. An effort was made not 
long since to introduce among us a new society with prom- 
inent social rather than literary aims, but it not only failed 
to receive the requisite assent of the pre&ident of the college, 
but was not favored by any considerable number of students, 
many of whom stoutly opposed it. 

The aim of these societies is, I say, improvement in literary 
culture and in manly character, and this aim is reasonably 
justified by the results. It is not accidental that the fore- 
most men in college, as a rule, belong to some of these socie- 
ties. That each society should seek for its membership the 
best scholars, the best writers and speakers, the best men of 
the class, shows well where its strength is thought to lie. A 
student entering one of these societies finds a healthy stimu- 
lus in the repute which his fraternity shall share from his 
successful work. The rivalry of individuals loses much of 
its narrowness, and almost all of its envy, when the prize 
which the individual seeks is valued chiefly for its benefit to 
the fellowship to which he belongs. Doubtless members of 
these societies often remain narrow-minded and laggard 
in the race, after all the influence of their society has been 
expended upon them, but the influence is a broadening and a 
quickening one, notwithstanding. Under its power the self- 
conceit of a young man is more likely to give away to 
self-control than otherwise. 

There need be no objection to these societies on account of 
their secrecy. The secrecy is largely in name ; is, in fact, 
little more than the privacy proper to the most familiar inter- 
course of families and friends. Treated as the societies are 
among us, and occupying the ground they do, no mischief 
comes from their secrecy. Instead of promoting cliques and 
cabals, in point of fact we find less of them than the history 
of the college shows before the societies came. The rivalry 
between them is a healthy one and is conducted in a manly 
way. 



192 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1890 



The societies must give back to the tone they have first re- 
ceived I am persuaded that in any college where 

the prevailing life is true and earnest, the societies fed by its 
fountain will send back bright and quickening streams. They 
certainly give gladness and refreshment to our whole college 
life at Amherst. 

I thank you Mr. President and Gentlemen, for the honor 
done me, and the pleasure afforded by the invitation to be 
present at these festivities. I accept the invitation, as offici- 
ally given to the president of the college, and I gratefully re- 
cognize, in behalf of the college, both what this fraternity 
has already done in making its history so brilliant with il- 
lustrious names, and what it is doing to-day in adorning and 
strengthening the college in making its members purer, 
braver, truer men, and in using its increasing power for increas- 
ing growth in all that is honorable and of good report. I 
look on its past and its present as a bright dawn of a brighter 
day. 

A Member. 



Personals. 



J. G. G. Kerry, B.A.Sc., ’88, is railroad locating in 
Gaspe. 

Dr. J. Hewitt, who lately returned from Europe, 
is in town for a few days. 

Thanks, Smaill, for the copy of the Glasgow Uni- 
versity Magazine. It has been made good use of. 

We clip the following item from The Truth, pub- 
lished in New Westminster, British Columbia : — 
“ Proceedings of the City Council. — Water works. — 
From the Secretary of the Water Commissioners, 
reporting that they have appointed Mr. Arthur Hill, 
C.E., to the position of water-works engineer, at a 
salary of $2,000 per annum.” Mr. Hill is a B.A.Sc., 
75. 

It is with much sorrow that we chronicle the death 
of the wife of the Rev. H. E. C. Mason, Arts, ’88, 
and sister of G. A. Craik, 3rd Arts. Mr. Mason had 
just got nicely settled in the Congregational pastorale 
at Brandon, Man. By diligent efforts he had secured 
the erection of a new church. In this unexpected 
bereavement, we extend to him and to G. H. Craik, 
our sincerest sympathies. 



Exchanges. 



This is what the Dalhousie Gazette, with its usual 
good sense, thinks of the Dinner Number : — 

“ The University Gazette of Feb. 24, gives a full 
account of the great banquet, where the different 
departments of McGill University met, and where 
Professors, graduates and undergraduates to the num- 
ber of about 400, enjoyed themselves. McGill is not 
co-educational, but, on this occasion, lady students 
representing the Donalda Department, were present 
in numbers, and, by f requent references made to them 
by the speech-makers, we judge they were chief among 
the attractions of the evening. There was much re- 
joicing over the passage of the B. A. Bill by the Que- 
bec Legislature, and this recognition of the University 
was hopefully considered the beginning of a new 
educational era. The Banquet Committee are to be 
congratulated on their having made this initial Ban- 
quet a financial success.” 



Between the Lectures. 



“ Lives of poor men oft remind us — 

Honest toil don’t stand a chance ; 

More we work, we have behind us 
Bigger patches on our pants.” 

The latest thing out — The college student’s night 
lamp. 

A chronic law student has been named “ necessity ” 
because ho knows no law. 

Professor Hutchinson says that the number of 
English speaking students for the legal profession is 
very much smaller than formerly. What a calamity 
it would be if the supply of lawyers should fall short 
of the demand. 

Newly fledged M.D. (wishing to feel fair patient’s 
pulse), “ Will you give me your hand?” F. P., (em- 
barrassed), “Oh — but, doctor — you — you know — 
I am so — so unprepared — I must really ask papa 
first.” (“ He never smiled again.”) 

Perhaps some Arts man will give a literal rendering 
to ihe following versions : — 

“ Is ab ille hereis ago ? 

Fortibus es in aro ! 

Nova dictis forte trux 
Se vaticiuum — pes and dux !” 

“ Stabile ! Stabile! haeresago — 

Fortibus es in aro. 

Nobile ! Nobile ! Themis trux 
Saevat is in em, * Pes an dux.” 

I am going to resign my position as joker-in-ordi- 
nary to this establishment. I believe in the survival 
of the fittest, and if any man is a worse joker than 
I am, I ain’t going to stand in his way. 

I was loafing in the hall yesterday, watching the 
Sophomore crush at the English door, when a callow 
Freshman sauntered up, with a complaisant smile, 
and addressed me : — 

“ Say, Johle, if I sent in an exercise, and Dr. 
Pierre made me write it over again, what would be 
the difference between us ? ” 

“ Difference of opinion,” I hazarded. (He was 
only a Freshman, and doesn’t know much about such 
things, or he wouldn’t joke about them ; but let that 
pass.) 

“ Wrong there, old boy,” he said ; “ there wouldn’t 
be any difference ; for if Darey read it, and I re-wrote 
it, we would be doing the same thins, don’t you 
know.” ° J 

“ Why ! How ? Say it again, Fresh. I don’t 
seem to catch on. Where’s your joke, anyhow?” 

“ Well, now, look here ; you’ve studied Latin, 
haven’t you ? (I forgive him that.) Well, eo — I go ; 
re — back. Redeo, redis, redit — he goes back. Darey 
read it. 

“ Now, roto — l turn ; re — back. Reroto, rerotas, 
rerotat—he returns. I re-wrote it. Isn’t that the 
same thing? The Doctor goes back, and I return.” 
Next ! 

Johle Johkr. 



1890.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



193 



College Ulorl 6. 

A RECENT DISCOVERY IN ASTRONOMY. 

A magnificent work is being carried on by Har- 
vard College Observatory. Photographs are being 
taken of the spectra of all stars of the 7th. magnitude 
or brighter (stars of the 7th. are not visible to the 
unaided eye), and these photographs are studied by 
experts. The funds for this work are furnished by 
what is known as “The Henry Draper Memorial 
bund” which has been established by Mrs. Draper in 
memory of her late husband. 

One of the most recent results is especially inter- 
esting. The star Z Urza Majoris (the second in the 
handle of “the dipper”) has long been known to 
be a double star. In a photograph of the spectra of 
this star it was noticed that the line K was duuble. 
Further investigation showed that it was double only 
at intervals of 52 days, and that for several days 
before and after these dates it had a hazy appearance, 
at other times it was single and sharply defined. 

The only satisfactory explanation of this phenom- 
enon as yet proposed is that the brighter component 
of this star is itself a double star having a component 
nearly equal in brightness and too close to have been 
separated as yet visually, and that the time of revolu- 
tion of this system is 104 days. The velocity will be 
about 100 miles per second. If the orbit is circular 
and its plane passes through the sun, the distance 
travelled by one component of the star, regarding the 
other as fixed, would be 900 million miles, and the 
distance apart of the two components would be 143 
million miles, or about that of Mars and the Sun. 
The combined mass would be about 40 times that of 
the sun to give the required period. 

Two other stars have been found showing a similar 
periodicity ; B Aurigae and b Ophiuchi. 



COOK ! ! ! 

Last Friday will always be remembered by the 
students in Medicine, as the Red Letter day of the past 
session, as on that day the annual presentation was 
made to Cook, the popular Janitor of that faculty. 

At 10 o'clock the Primary years, who were the 
donors of the purse, were waiting in the upper lecture 
theatre, when the doors were opened and one of the 
grandest sights ever seen in McGill or any other col- 
lege presented itself to their admiring gaze. There, 
inarching four-deep up the hall was a gallant body 
guard of third and fourth year men, holding on high 
flaming torches, their heads crowned with helmets, 
(the material for the above torches and helmets con 
sisted of the week's supply of newspapers, borrowed 
for the occasion from the reading-room) and preceded 
by a brass band [B — s — ttwith Cook's bell]. In the 
midst of this guard the Famous Cook was borne along 
in the arms of two stalwart students. 

As soon as the lecture theatre was reached, the 
torches extinguished, and Cook placed on a throne 
which had been prepared in front of the class, the 
presentation was made, accompanied by the following 
address, which was repeatedly interrupted by bursts 
of applause and “ selections by the Brass band.” 



To His Excellency the Lord High Administrator of the 
McGill Faculty of Medicine : Bearing the following numerous 
and honourable titles, To wit : — 

The Solon of McGill 

Pater Embryonicorum Medicorum : 

He-That-Must-Be-Donated : 

The Guardian Angel of the Chamber of 
Director of the elevator. [Horrors : 

Knight-Commander of the Vats. 

Greeting : 

We, students of the world renowned and famous College of 
McGill, an institution which, in consequence of your unsur- 
passed judgment, wisdom, and discretion, stands forth un- 
rivalled on this or any other Continent, would humbly beg to 
express to you our high appreciation of the grand and states- 
manlike manner in which you conduct this renowned Univer- 
sity. 

The noble office of Janitor has been hitherto regarded by 
other writers as gross and mechanical ; but we believe, and 
look forward to future generations to confirm our belief, that it 
is a much more complicated office than has generally been 
thought. 

Furthermore it must be admitted that there are processes in- 
volved in its proper administration which, in the light of recent 
investigation and research, involve subtle anabolic and kata- 
bolic changes, which have not before been properly elucidated, 
but which we hope soon to embody in book-form. 

We feel that this purse is totally inadequate to express the 
love and filial devotion which we bear towards you ; the result 
of the fatherly solicitude which guided our faltering and per- 
verse footsteps throughout the past session. 

We sincerely trust that during the coming session you will 
continue to exercise that Daniel-like judgment which you in- 
variably manifest in regard to Professional selections ; and that 
any changes in the staff which, in your wisdom, you may deem 
necessary, you will not hesitate to immediately carry into effect. 

Moreover, we implore you by no means to relax your usual 
vigilance in all matters pertaining to our interests and welfare, 
and more particularly we beg you to extend the sunlight of 
your counsel to all freshmen who in the future may fall within 
the halo of your countenance. 

Extending our good wishes to the faithful and queenly part- 
ner of your joys and sorrows, and trusting that your dignified 
form may long continue to hover around the crypts and portals 
of McGill, 

We beg to subscribe ourselves, 

Your humble and devoted admirers, 

The First and Second Years. 

Given under our hands and seals, ) 

this fourteenth day of March, Anno > 

Domini MDCCCXC-OOK. ) 

We wish, for the benefit of those of our readers who 
have not seen the above document, that we could re- 
produce the seal, as it was really a work of art, having 
in the center a representation of Cook “ roasting ” a 
freshman, with suitable mottoes around it, such as 
“ In Cook we trust,” “ What's the matter with old 
McGill,” etc. 

To the above address the grand old man, with his 
usual dignified and scholarly manner, replied : — 

Cook’s Reply. 

Gentlemen of the Primary Years. 

Once more the year has rolled round and brought us to this 
time of common fear. 

With you, the fear is that despite the preparatory work 
undertaken during the greater part of the session of building up 
your constitutions by nightly walks to the “ Royal ” ; and of 
cultivating there the ^Esthetic parts of your natures, by the 
fascinating attractions exhibited ; and of so contributing to the 
obtaining of a permanent, tonicity and healthy vigour of the 
cerebral centres ; in despite also of the spasmodic though 
earnest work bestowed on your studies in the last few weeks, 
your fears are, that your expectations will fall short of the 
subsequent realizations. 



194 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1890 . 



Gentlemen, 1 also fear with you the same calamity ; and it 
should comfort you in your disquietude, to know, that one so 
well acquainted with your individual peculiarities and capabili- 
ties, believes in the inevitable as firmly as a Turk. So gentle- 
men, I will blame no one who owing to congenital insufficiency 
caunot accomplish impossibilities in the coming examinations. 
1 would much rather lend such an one a helping hand in the 
toilsome journey to obtain the Degree of my College. 

You all know, that, the student has no warmer friend than 
Cook ; but in his double capacities of looking after the interests 
of the Faculty and those of the students, sometimes friction must 
occur and the student feel aggrieved. But time tests everything, 
and so those who know Cook the longest think the most of him. 

So, the gathering to-day to do me honor, I regard as a 
tribute by the Primary Years to the ingenuousness of my 
unselfish nature. Not only that, but also, that in serving the 
Faculty with the vast experience I have acquired in my many 
years work here, I have also served you ; and so by the perfec- 
tion of my management, have considerably smoothed your 
pathway to success. 

I have but to mention the Dissecting room and its cleanly 
keeping, the plentiful supply of well injected and well preserved 
“subs,” the well heated and well ventilated building and its 
cleanly keeping; the' exclusion of dogs, organ grinders, tramps, 
and Moss from the premises ; the promptness with which 
lecture bells are rung and John made to hustle in with Dr. 
Shepherd’s specimens. I might go on “ad infinitum ” but my 
modesty prevents me telling what you all know so well. 

You try to prove the sincerity of your admiration of my char- 
acter by the handsome present now placed in my hands. I 
accept it gentlemen in the spirit given and in return must say 
as I have often said in previous years on similar occasions, that 
“ the present Primary years of McGill Medical College are the 
best that have ever entered McGill” and say it gentlemen with 
the same sincerity that you have to-day displayed to me. 

I thank you gentlemen for the enthusiastic reception accord- 
ed me, and will ever remain, 

Y our J anitor * * Cook . ’ ’ 

Then after the usual “ Elevating ” and “ Bouncing” 
Cook was allowed to escape, and the gathering broke 
up. 



The citizens of Ottawa, have presented the college 
football club with a handsome memorial of their 
achievements in the manly game. Holding, as they do 
in reality, the championship of Canada, but prevented 
from obtaining possession of the trophy by a techni- 
cality, the action of the citizens is highly commend- 
ible. 

The Election of officers in connection with the 
’Varsity Literary Society, is one of the annual events 
in college life at Toronto. 

V hy could not McGill waken up somewhat on this 
point? Perhaps it would enthuse the meetings of the 
society a little more. 

Of the seven graduates of the Royal Military Col- 
lege, who for distinguished excellence at the Royal 
Engineering School, Chatham, have just been sent 
on a professional tour through Europe by the home 
military authorities, four, Lieutenants Panet, Joly de 
Lotbiniere, Girouard and Fanvell, are Canadians. 

With reference to the intended grant to the 
Toronto University, La Verite says the Legislature 
cannot do it, without committing a “ mortal sin.” 

ihe Argentine Republic has two government uni- 
versities which rank with Yale and Harvard in curri- 
culum and standard of education. 



LITERATURE. 

SELECTED CANADIAN WORKS. 



History of Canada, .... 

By Prof. Brycf.. 


(Cloth) 


$2.25 


In Divers Tones, .... 

By Chas. G. D. Roberts. 


(Cloth) 


1.00 


Songs of Old Canada, 

By William McLennan. 


(Cloth) 


1.00 


Songs of the Great Dominion, . 

By W. D. Lighthall. 


(Cloth) 


1.00 


Le Chien D’Or, 

By William Kirby. 


(Paper) 


.40 


The Young Seigneur, 

By Wilfred Chateauclaire. 


(Cloth) 


1.00 



Supplied by 

W. H. F, SHARSWOOD, 

Publishers’ Agent, 



orders FOR 180 St. JaMES STREET, 

BOOKS, 

PERIODICALS, City and District Bank Building , 

STATIONERY, 

Promptly Executed. MONTREAL. 



OUR ADVERTISERS. 











PAGE, 


Armstrong k Radford, 








197 


Ashford, C., 








193 


Atwater k Co., 








184 


Birks, H., k Co., 








195 


Chapleau & Co., 








184 


Clarke, G. W., 








198 


Gumming k Brewis, 








196 


Doughty, A. G., 








197 


Drysdale, Wm., k Co., 








184 


Dyer, W. A., k Co., . 








184 


Featherston, A. M., 








197 


Gerth, E. A., . 








196 


Gray, Hy. R. , . 








196 


Greenshields k Co., 








184 


Gurney, E. and C., k Co., 








195 


Henderson, John k Co., 








195 


Hirsch, M. . 








184 


Jensen, J. L., . 








195 


Lyman, Sons k Co., 








195 


Macaulay, W. B. T., . 








197 


Montreal Steam Laundry Co., 








198 


Murray, Wm., 








197 


MacBean, D. B. A., 








196 


McEntyre k Son, 








184 


McLaren, W. D., 








198 


Ness, T. W., . 








195 


Nightingale, D., . 








196 


Nordheimer & Co., 








198 


Notman k Son, 








198 


Payne Geo., 








196 


Periard, A., 








196 


Reid, Robert, . 








196 


Robertson k Co., 








184 


Ross, Hugh, 








197 


Sharswood, W. H. F., 








194 


Sheppard, Geo. J., 








196 


Suinmerhayes k Walford, . 








197 


Tarrante, Sami., 




. 




197 



UNI VERS TTY GAZETTE. 



195 



Home Medical Batteries 

— AND — 

ELECTRO-MEDICAL APPARATUS, 

ELECTRIC BELLS, BATTERIES, ANNUNCIATORS, MOTORS, 
EXPERIMENTAL COILS, 

Learners’ Telegraphic Instruments, &c. 

EVERYTHING IN THE ELECTRICAL LINE. 

X. W. NESS, 694 Craig St., Montreal. 

Type- writers, Copygraphs, and Office Supplies. 


SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS 

and: chemical apparatus. 

$ fSill $todk doi)$tkntly oi) fi-kqd, Imported 

f)fredt front tl]e I^eadir^ }d aitufad tifrefd 
of tl\e Wortd. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. 

LYMAN, SONS & CO., 

384 ST. PAUL STREET. 




JOHN HENDERSON & CO., 


1^0 Y^L DYE Y/ORFvfS. 


Hatters and Furriers, 


706 CRAIG STREET. 

• 


229 ST. JAMES STREET. 






Special Agents for College Trenchers, &c. 



E. & C. GURNEY & CO.. 



3S5 sSc 387 St. DF’.a.ttxj Steeet, 



STOVES, 

GRATES, 

RANGES, 

SCALES. 



GURNEY’S 



R elebrrted Hot Water Hesters 



Cast Bundy Radiators. 



—{•Wholesale Manufacturers*:— 




Hot Aie Furnaces 

FOR 

Coal or Wood. 



ALL GOODS GUARANTEED, 



Circulars on Application. 



385 & 387 

St. Paul Street, 



MONTREAL. 





196 



UNIVEKSITY GAZETTE. 



THE MOST CONVENIENTLY SITUATED 

Plioto^rajifilc Studio 

FOR McGILL college, 

IS THAT OF 

CUMMING & EREWIS 

117 and 119 Mansfield St. 

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 

Telephone 4620. Satisfaction Guaranteed, 

“Our Little Favorite,” One dollar per doz. 



A. PERIARD, 

LAW BOOKSELLER, 

Publisher and Importer, 

23 ST. JAMES STREET, 

(Near the Court House,) 

MOITTEEAL. 



Established 1850. 

©-IEe.A."2% 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST 
ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STREET, 

(CORNER LA GA V CIIETIERE, ) 

Montreal. 

The Dispensing of Physicians’ Prescriptions a Specialty. 
Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers sup- 
plied with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 

N.B.— Observe New Address, 



ROBERT REID, 

Montreal Marble and Granite Works, 

Cor. SI. CATHERINE AND ALEXANDER. 

Monumental & Cemetery Wort of every description. 

WOOD MANTLE-TILES FOR FIRE-PLACES AND FLOORING, 

AND ALL KINDS OF 

Fire-Place Furniture. 



TIb lotto Mis! or Roman Bat!, 

140 ST. MONIQUE ST., Joot of McGill College Ave. 



LARGE AND COMPLETE. 

Purities the Blood ! Secures Perfect Cleanliness ! 
A Luxury without a Sting ! 

Gentlemen received from 6 to 8 a.m., 2 to 9 p.m. 

Ladies, “ “ 10 to 12 noon. 

D. B. A. MacBEAN, M.D. 



Doctors’ and Students’ Headquarters 

— FOR — 



Spiller & Co.’s (London, E.) Du Khedive Extra Fine 
CIGARETTES. 



Lowe & Co.’s THOMPSON PIPES and others. 

Largest and most Complete Stock of CANES in the City VIRGINI 
and TURKISH TOBACCOS. * 




Banjos & Guitars. 

Sole agent for the celebrated 

“BRUNO” GUITAR 

AND 

Dobson “ Yictor ” Banjo. 

Guitars with Patent Head 
from $5 to $50 each . 
Banjos with latest im- 
provements 

from $7.50 to $50 each. 



Best Russian Gut Strings, 

Banjo Heads Replaced 

AND 

Musical Instruments of every 
description repaired . 

GEORGE J. SHEPPARD 

2282 St. Catherine St. 

N.B . — Special discount to 
Students. 




E- A. GERTH, 

2235 St. Catherine Street, Queen’s Block. 

G- IE O !R, (3- IE PAY FT IE , 

CUN MAKER, 

687 CRAIG STREET, West.of Bleury Street, - MONTREAL. 

Maker of the Genuine' Racing Skates. 

EF*Repairs Promptly Attended to. N.B.— Skates Ground. 



D. IMIGHTIM GALE, 

MANUFACTURER OF AND DEALER IN 

Pool & Billiard Tables, & Billiard Supplies, 

1742 NOTRE DAME ST., MONTREAL, Canada. 



<®-rimproved Billiard Cushions. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



197 



NOW READY ! 

A New Book in Shorthand: 

“The Idylls of the King.” 

By ALFRED LORD TENNYSON. 

An Engraved Shorthand Version of the above by Arthur G. 
Doughty, beautifully Illustrated, is now completed. Printed 
in red and black, on vellum paper. Cloth and leather binding. 

All communications and orders to be addressed to 

A. C. TROTTER, 

IE 3 . O- IBoac 2.7(3^, - Ivdontreal. 



TUTORING. 

MR. W. B. T. MACAULAY, 

EDINBURGH UNIVERSITY AND HIGH SCHOOL, MONTREAL. 

Students fitted for Matriculation into all Faculties of the 
University and for other Examinations. 

37 McGill College Avenue. 

ARMSTRONG & RADFORD, 

HaMaslers ail Outfitters, 

ALWAYS IN POSSESSION OF 

Latest Novelties and conceits in Gentle- 
men's Wear, 

2246 ST. CATHERINE STREET, ( Opposite Victoria St.) 

TELEPHONE No. 4574. 

Agents for 

Canada Steam Laundry and Dye Works, 

1494 ST. CATHERINE STREET. 
Special attention paid to Students’ orders. 



RING UP ! BELL TELEPHONE No. 1237 

FEDERAL “ “ 693, 

For Prices of Photographs 

OR TO MAKE YOUR APPOINTMENTS. 

Exceptionally Good Rate to Students, and none but the 
Finest Work sent out from our Studios. 

a®" Photos, of Professors on Sale I ts 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD, 

1 BLEURY STREET. 

) BTxir iroxT g*. ( == 

Boots and Shoes, 

Lubbers, Overshoes and Moccasins 

— AT — 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

SHOE STORES. 

UP TOWN : QUEEN'S HALL BLOCK, 

2243 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 
Tlie W est End 

HAIR -DRESSING AND HAIR -CUTTING 

AND 

Shampooning Establishment, 

SAMUEL TARRANTE 

From England, 

2305 & 2307 St. Catherine St. 

The Place for all tie Students to go for a Good Hair-Cut, &c. 




WM. MURRAY, 

MANUFACTURER AND IMPORTER OF 

ffitve ffwrs <tntX 

No. 2202 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 

( Opposite the English Cathedral , ) 

MONTREAL. 

N.B. — Liberal Discount to Students. 



HUGH ROSS, 

[Successor to J. D. Anderson], 

MERCHANT TAILOR, 

206 St. James St., Montreal, 

Has this season on band a beautiful Stock of Goods of all kinds, 
such as this bouse has always been famed for. 

Clerical, Advocates' and Academical Gowns 

MILITARY UNIFORMS AND HIGHLAND COSTUMES 
A SPECIALTY. 

Inspection Invited. Snecial Discount to Students. 



198 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



WJI. N< >T| mx 4 Slt\. 

Photographers, 

STUDEJi'TS’ PORTRAITS 

CLASS GROUPS 

PRIPATE GROUPS 
PORTRAITS OF PROFESSORS : 
COLLEGE PIER'S, Sfc. 

17 BleuK;Y Street, 

MONTREAL. 

» 

Montreal Steam Laundry Co’y. 

LIMITED, 

21 and 23 ST. ANTOINE ST., - MONTREAL. 

The largest and most complete Laundry in the Dominion / 

Satisfaction Guaranteed at the Lowest Prices. 

SPECIAL RATES OFFERED TO FAMILIES, HOTELS, COL- 
LEGES, AND ALL PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS. 

Shirts, Collars and Cuffs made to order at reasonable prices ! 



TELEPHONE Nos., Bell, Federal, 

580 6 l 2482 . 1683 . 



T. H. LOVE, 

Manager. 



THE GEJVUIIVE 

Oooi^’s Friend 
BAKING POWDhR 

Is the BEST VALUE in the market, is made from 
the PUREST INGREDIENTS, gives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to the user, and should be pre- 
ferred by all careful housekeepers. Retailed 
everywhere. 



CD. ASHFORD, 

Medical Bookseller and Stationer, 

KEEPS IN STOCK 

All the MEDICAL TEXT BOOKS used in McGill College, 
besides a large variety of NOTE BOOKS, at 
prices to give satisfaction. 

Stylo Pens and Fountain Pens, 75c., 10 p. c. disc’t., with others more expensive 

HISTOLOGICAL SPECIMEN BOXES, COVER GLASSES, SLIDES, &C. 

IL/Eozn-tresil G-ena... Hospital Fliarmacopceia, 25c. 

G. ASHFORD, 

Near University st. 818 Dorchester St, Montreal. 



44tli YEAR. 



NORDHEIMER’S 



ESTABLISHED 1845. 



OF THE STANDARD CELEBRATED MAKERS 

STEINWAY, CHICKERING, HAINES, NORDHEIMER. 

THE 

Public are Invited to Call & Inspect our New Stock & Compare Values. 

A. «£ S. NORDHEIMER, 

213 ST. JTATMIES STF6H1IET, Mn~NrTP,Til a t ■ 

HENRY BIRKS * CO. - JEWELLERS, &o. 

■ ■ ■ ■ ■ 

Fine Jewellery, Silver Ware, Watches, Clocks, &c, 

A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF ARTICLES SUITABLE FOR PRIZES, &c. 

230 and 237 St. Jsim©s Str©et, — — NTontrocil. 

THE UNIVERSAL 238 aud 240 St . James Street, IMontreal. 

W. C LARIlE, Importer of* 

Fine Fancy Goods, . Art Metal Ware, . Fine Leather Goods. 

Ladies’ and Gent’s Fitted Travelling Bags, Toilet Cases, &c. 

ALL KINDS OF RICH GOODS SUITABLE FOR WEDDING, BIRTH DAY and COMPLIMENTARY PRESENTS. 




