
MONTREAL, MARCH 6, 1893. 


























/ 







Editorial Comments 155 The Gondoliers 175 

Some Aspects of Education 1 C7 I . ~ . 

r D * Sporting Column 176 

The Last New Book, Poetry 158 

Results of Doubting, Poetry 159 

An Old College Library 15^ 

A Summer in the Adirondacks 160 

The Opening of New Science Building. 163 

Reliquiae Antiquae 170 

Notes on the French Revolution 171 

A Love Tail, Poetry 174 

Library Notes 174 

The Jokes I have forgot, Poetry ... 174 

A Rhyme for Orange 175 

A Visit to Radnor Forges 175 



Football as the Girls see it, Poetry 176 

Societies 177 

Faculty Reports 178 

Medicine 178 

Science 179 

Law 179 

Arts 180 

Donalda News 181 

Comparative Medicine Notes 181 

Exchanges 182 










McGill university ? 

ARCHIVES 
ACC. NO. 

REF. 




MUNCO CIGARS, EXCEPTIONALLY FINE. FINE GOODS OUR SPECIALTY 



S. DAVIS & SONS, LARGEST CIGAR MANUFACTURERS IN CANADA. 




In Oak, Rosewood, Mahogany and Cherry. 
“STEWART” “BAY STATE” and “DOBSON” 

- == BANJOS. == - 

Genuine Italian Mandolines. 

Best Bussian Gut Strings and Everything in the 
Musical Line. 

GEORGE J. SHEPPARD, 

2274 and 2276 St. Catherine Street. 

N. B, — Special discount to Students. 



|/nnALfQ and al1 kinds °t Cameras for Sale, 
IVUUhIIO Exchange or to Rent. 

IPIR/XOIES : #6 to #75. 

Instruction in Developing and Printing, free to all. 

Montreal Photographic Supply, 

R. F. SMITH, 164 St. James St. 

Sole Agent for Canada Rodinal, Carbutt’s and Harvard Plates ; Prosch 
Shutters and Flash Lamps, Optmus and Periscope Lenses, etc., etc. 

REMI XT O-T O XT 

STANDARD 

TYPEWRITER 




1892 



MODEL 

CALL - AND - SEE 

Our Medical Keyboard. 

SPACKMAN & CO., 

164 ST. JAMES STREET, - MONTREAL. 

I ^° U get value for 

jy 1 your money by buying your 

Boots and Shoes at 

A. M. FEATHERSTON, 2243 St. Catherine, 

CORNER VICTORIA STREET, - - 



TO WHEELMEN. 

Before buying your Wheel for the coming season, call in and see the 

HUMBER ’ BEESTON 



- AND THE - 



NEW ‘‘ HOWE.” 

The most perfect Safety Bicycles in the market. Dunlop Adjustable 
lyre nd the Laforce Tyres SOLE AGENT, 

LOUIS RUBENSTEIN, 537 Craig Street. 



High Quality. 



Low Prices- 



Surgical Instruments 

References by kind permission, The Medical Faculty 

J. H. CHAPMAN, 

2294 St. Catherine Street, Corner of 
McGill College Avenue. 

Bell Telephone, 4396. 3IOfltveCtl . 

Util) WMIS FOR Mil MS 

To buy their Winter supply of 

NECKWEAR, UNDERWEAR, HOSIERY 



Reindeer, Antelope, Buckskin, 

Dogskin and Woolen Gloves 

OF EVERY DESCRIPTION. 

New Goods arriving: daily at 

ARMSTRONG & MUNROE’S, 

2216 St. Catherine Street, 



Foot of Victoria. 



WISE professional 
MEN 

BUY their DESKS 

and 

BOOK 

CASES 

from 

TEES & CO. 

300 St. James St., Montreal. 

flrlfhow our Rates to 
Students ate 
H Low, 

J| We give them the best in 
* Portraits, 

Groups, etG. 

W. INotman Sc Son, 17BleurySt. 



m 

r 

■o 

> 

o 

53 

PI 

> 

2 

O 

O 

> 

B3 

r 

pi 




MADRE E’ HUD (7 SIZES.) 



McOIIvL UNIVERSITY, MONTREAL. 

general view, buildings and campus. 




Redpath Museum. Medical School. 

Wm. Molson Hall and Main Buildings. Macdonald Engineering Building. 



Physical Laboratories. 




Wm. Workman Workshops 
and Laboratories. 



MACDONALD ENGINEERING BUILDING. 



Macdonald Physical Laboratories. 



OESBARATS 4 CO., ENGRAVERS AND PRINTERS. 




IVlcGlbls FOKTNIGHTby. 

A Fortnightly Journal of Literature, University Thought and Event. 

VOL. I. MONTREAL, MARCH 6, 1893. No. 9 




->• EDITORIAL BOARDS 



Gordon \V. MacDougall, B.A. (Law *94), Editor-in-chief. 

\V. M. MacKeracher, (Arts *94). George F. Shaw (Med. ’93). 

A. R. Holden, B.A. (Science *94). Mabel Lee (Donalda *93). 

Wilfred Plaskbtt (Comp. Med. 93). J. A. MacPhail, M.D. (Grads. Soc.). 



EBUSINESS BOARDS 



H. M. Kinghorn, B.A. (Med. *94), Chairman . 

E. J. MacIver (Arts *93), Secretary . 

J. Feathbrston (Science *93). Peers Davidson, B.A. (Law ’93). 

F. A. Botterbll (Donalda *95). Glen Campbell (Comp. Med. *93). 



The McGill Fortnightly is published by the Students of the University 
on the Thursday of every second weelc during the College Session in the 
University of McGill* % 

The annual subscription is $ 1 *oo, payable strictly in advance. Single copies 
may be obtained at E. M. RenouPs and Wm. Drysdale & Co., Booksellers. Price, 

10 cents. 

Rejected Communications will not be returned, to which, rule no exception 

can be made. 

The name of the writer must always accompany a communication. 

Address Contributions to Edi tor-in- Chief, P .O. Box 37. 



EDITORIAL COMMENTS, 



THE SCIENCE FACULTY. 

On the 24th of February, 1893, the Engineering and 
Physics Buildings, erected through the munificence of 
W. C. McDonald, Esq., were declared to be formally 

open. 

A large sum of money has been spent in the enter 
prise — large sums of money will still be required to 
keep the Buildings and Equipment in a proper state of 
maintenance, and it therefore seems a fitting occasion 
on which to recapitulate a few of the reasons which have 
justified the extraordinary development of the Faculty 
of Applied Science. 

Consider what is expected from the graduate of Ap- 
plied Science— what is his duty in life. He has to 
perform service of the grandest character— he has to 
see that all scientific knowledge is turned into useful 
channels, and that the forces of Nature are employed in 
the most scientific manner to serve the needs of man. 

To do this work it is necessary that a man should 
possess certaiii special characteristics. He must, m the 
first place, be a true student— making himself thoroughly 



conversant with the discoveries in Science — not only 
with those discoveries already made, but also with 
those which are being made day by day. 

In the next place, he must know how to do work, and 
know also how work should be done. In other words, 
he must have learned the use of the hand. He must 
have had his observation so trained that no important 
fact shall be allowed to escape his attention. 

Again, to be successful he must thoroughly acquaint 
himself with the needs of the world— he must be pre- 
pared for every kind of emergency, and should never 
hesitate to throw himself into work requiring original 
and inventive reasoning, even when the problems in- 
volved are abstruse and seemingly insolvable. 

To produce characteristics such as these, it is gener- 
ally admitted that a special training, having a scientific 
basis, is required, premising, of course, that the student 
has previously gone through a good general course of 
all-round mental education, which he will find of the 
utmost importance in his future life, as it will give him 
a degree of culture, perhaps unattainable by any other 
means. The special training should be such as may 
now be obtained in Engineering Schools such as ours. 

The great advantage of being closely connected with 
the University cannot be too highly estimated. The 
studies of our Science Students comprise mathematics, 
physics, chemistry, strength of material, structural 
design, principles of mechanism, theory of heat, engines, 
practical hydraulics, applied electricity, surveying, 
drawing both geometrical and mechanical, and are 
pursued in a regular manner during the four years they 
remain at the University. Taken together, these 
studies afford a most liberal education, and may be 
supplemented by a professional training only to be 
obtained in an Engineering office or on actual works 
of construction. 

The laboratory practice will train the student in the 
application of scientific principles to practical problems ; 
and, further, he is given an opportunity of acquiring 
practical skill in carrying out experiments and in 
making investigations. 

Amongst men thus trained may we not hope to find 
many who will do more than come up to the public 
ideal of a science graduate? Why should there not be 
those who will know, not only how to turn our scientific 
facts into useful channels, but who will themselves be 
able to contribute their share to the vast storehouse of 
the world’s knowledge ? 

H. T. B. 



156 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



MCGILL THE NATIONAL UNIVERSITY. 

A Montreal newspaper a few months ago character- 
ized McGill as the “ National University.” It was at 
the time ot the opening of the MacKenzie Memorial 
Fund, one of the objects of which was to endow a chair 
in Political Economy in one of the Canadian colleges. 
The necessity of such being established in McGill is 
too clearly recognized by us all to require promulga- 
tion here. The paper contended that the chair to be 
provided for out of that fund should be given to Mc- 
Gill, McGill being the “ National University ” in con- 
tradistinction to a certain other <f provincial ” Univer- 
sity which had preferred a claim. The propriety of 
this designation as applied to McGill may not be 
evident to all, particularly the Students of sister 
universities, who will likely regard it as conveying a 
meaning which is not necessarily implied. It is not a 
claim to pre-eminence, derived from a comparison of 
educational standards or a flat assumption of super- 
iority ; we support it as a simple statement of the 
character of the institution, based upon the circum- 
stance of its foundation, the fact of its location and of 
the area from which its Students are drawn. 

Founded by the liberality of an individual (to whom 
such worthy successors have arisen), not owing its 
existence to funds dealt out from the Treasury of the 
Province, to whose supervision it is in no wise subject, 
McGill is in no sense a provincial establishment, while 
its intimate connection with the Royal Institution and 
the Crown, and through the latter with the Supreme 
Government of the country, emphasizes its national 
character. “ As for McGill,” Sir William said once, 
“ the colors are nailed to the mast.” She is pre- 
eminently British, and consequently pre eminently 
Canadian. The Dean of the Faculty of Arts has refer- 
red to Queen Victoria as the ultimate foundress of 
McGill, as Queen Elizabeth is regarded as the 
foundress of Trinity. The Governor General of the 
Dominion constitutes one of the governing body of the 
University. 

The national character of the institution is further 
emphasized by its central location. The seat of the 
National University should be the metropolitan city. 
And Montreal is not only the metropolitan city —the 
central city, the city to which ability and intellect 
converge as naturally as trade and commerce it is the 
city most distinctively Canadian. Anyone who 
wishes to feel the significance of Canadian history to 
be impressed by Canada as an historical fact has only 
to wander for a few hours in the more ancient parts of 
the city. Let him walk down old Notre Dame some 
sunny morning, past the French Cathedral and the 
Place d’Armes, down where he may look out through 
the narrow streets upon the blue St. Lawrence. He is 
back in the old regime with its chivalry and its poetry, 
and he almost expects to see the old-time barges sail in 
sight on their way to land a gay detachment for the 
garrison of Ville Marie from the little army of 
Frontenac. And side by side with this old Canada 
and mingling with it, is the Canada of to day, in the 
height of its commercial and intellectual activity. 



Montreal too, more than any other Canadian city of 
about its own size, has resisted the Americanizing 
influence of the time ; whether it will continue to do so 
in the future, and whether it should continue to do so, 
are not questions for us to settle. But that it has done 
so in the past is a fact, and Goldwin Smith may talk 
with perfect justice of the British tendencies of the 
Montreal hierarchy. That these tendencies are 
calculated to assist the advance of our country may be 
doubted, but they are at any rate an indication of 
national conservatism. 

The University of a neighboring province lately 
published its annual report. Of the Students in Arts 
(and it may be presumed that the percentage is not 
less for the other faculties, as the Arts course is there 
most efficient) ninety-eight per cent., it was stated, 
belonged to the province. In McGill alone of Canadian 
universities does the majority of Students consist of 
men from without the province in which the Univer- 
sity is located. 

Looking at the question in these lights, it is scarcely 
likely that anyone will deny the claim. Of course, 
no one can prevent McGill Students from justifying 
the epithet on other grounds. They look at the 
progress of nearly three-quarters of a century, they 
look at the men who fill the professors’ chairs, they 
look at the new Science buildings — . But an exoner- 
ation of McGill from the possible charge of provincial- 
ity must not adopt the tone of provincialism- 



UNIVERSITY EXTENSION. 

We have long been desirous of making mention in 
these columns # of the various courses of lectures 
delivered by different professors of the University under 
the auspices of University Extension Movement, but 
have unfortunately been unable to do so through 
pressure of other matters, and also, it must be confessed, 
from an imperfect knowledge of the workings of this 
new manifestation of energy on the part of certain 
members of our teaching staff, 

The idea seems to have originated with Professor 
Cox, who has imported into our own University the 
benefits derived from the large experience he has had 
in such matters on the other side of the Atlantic, and 
more especially in connection with a similar movement 
organized and carried out by the University of Cam- 
bridge. Both the courses organized by Professors Cox 
and Moyse respectively, on a general course of Physics 
delivered by the first named professor, and on English 
Literature by the latter, have been largely attended 
and thoroughly appreciated by large and attentive 
audiences. 

The synopses of the different subjects issued by the 
lecturers at the commencement of each of the courses 
have been ample, well digested, and most suitable in 
every respect, and we cannot help expressing the 
opinion here that such would appear to be the true 
method of all teaching, and if this species of instruc- 
tion were to find its way more largely into the ordinary 
courses in the various faculties, nothing but benefit 
could result. A general synopsis of a subject with 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



157 



references to the sources of the knowledge which 
it is desired to instil into the minds of the listeners is 
going to obviate in a large measure the uninteresting 
process of note-taking, which serves more as a distrac- 
tion to the listener than as a benefit to the conscientious 
student. In many cases, all that is necessary for ex- 
amination is a cramming of these disjointed fragments, 
and no original work or thought is indulged in by the 
student as would be and is undoubtedly the case, un- 
der the system of teaching carried out by synopsis, 
illustration and reference. 

In connection with this subject we may mention that 
notice has been given this year of the Somerville Lec- 
tures, which will commence in the Natural History 
Society rooms on Thursday evening, March 2nd. These 
lectures have been in the past of a most interesting and 
instructive nature, and certainly the list of lecturers 
with their appointed subjects would seem to indicate a 
similar state of things for this season. We are led to 
mention this course in connection with the extension 
movement, as these lectures are delivered entirely by 
our own professors and under the auspites of the 
University. 

The programme of the course is as follows : — 

Thursday, March 2—“ The Storage of Electrical 
Energy,” Prof. Chas. H. Carus- Wilson. 

Thursday, March 9—“ The Wealth of Mines,” Prof. 
W. H. Carlyle, Ma.E. 

Thursday, March 16— “ Lightning and Lightning 
Rods,” Prof. John Cox, M.A. 

Thursday, March 23 — “ Distribution of Power by 
Compressed Air and tfye Economics of Small Indus- 
tries,” Prof. J. T. Nicholson, B.Sc. 

Thursday, March 30, and Friday, 31 — “ The Com- 
parative Strength of Materials Under Different Condi- 
tions, with Practical Illustrations,” Prof. H. T. Bovey, 
M.A., C.E. 

Thursday, April 13 — “ Determination of Longitude,” 
Prof. C. H. McLeod, M.E- 



NEW SOCIETIES. 

A noticeable activity has made itself apparent in 
the University during the session now nearing its 
completion, in the organization of various societies, each 
with different ends and ambitions in view, and we point 
to this new growth with a peculiar pride. In the past, 
both in McGill and in other Canadian universities, as 
compared with these in the United States and on the 
other side of the Atlantic, there has been a singular 
lack of such club-organizations, and we have been in 
a large measure deprived of all the attendant benefits 
which ensue from associations of such a nature. This 
year, for the first time we believe in the history of the 
University, we have seen the organization of a Classi- 
cal Club, the constitution of which, with the officers of 
the year, we notice in another column. This is certainly 
most gratifying, and before many sessions are past we 
may look forward perhaps to the ambitious undertaking 
of the representation of a Greek play. Another body is 
the Senior Society of Applied Science, whose meetings 
have been well attended and good work done. What we 
are accomplishing has already been accomplished by 
the famous old institutions of Oxford, Cambridge, 
Harvard and Yale, who point with pride to their var- 
ious clubs and societies— classical, dramatic, finan- 



cial and political, and so the enumeration might go on 
for other great centres of University life. 

These societies are among the most valuable acces- 
sories of University teaching, and tend in a great mea- 
sure to aid in the realization of the doctrine that 
Universities should be formative bodies as well as 
teaching institutions. 

CONTRIBUTIONS 

SOME ASPECTS OF EDUCATION. 

( Continued .) 

The only method that is worth our notice is one 
which prepares the way for entrance into the higher 
parts of the study, and at the same time makes the lower 
parts as easy as possible. A so-called practical German- 
English and English-German dictionary lies before me, 
and on opening it I find the following English words 
given first in the list of meanings of the German 
words selected : zimmermann, carpenter ; lieb, dear ; 
zahl, number ; schwarz, black ; zweig, branch ; dach, 
roof ; werfen, throw ; bitten, ask ; haut, skin ; hebung 
raising ; zoll, duty ; gerne, willingly ; schmutz, dirt ; 
zeit, time. Now, if the relative, the scientific method had 
been employed, the following meanings would have 
stood first, and the linguistic correspondences — the law 
changes from German into English — would have been 
printed in italics or in black type : timberman, lief, tale, 
swart, twig, thatch, warp, bid, hide, heaving, toll, 
yearningly, smut, tide. A knowledge of these corres- 
pondences can be attained quite easily by minds that 
are prepared to wrestle with the Greek verbs in-mi-mi. 
The study of German would then assume a new and 
very interesting aspect, the result being that progress 
would be made much more rapidly than by the discon- 
nected method. It is quite apparent that from the cor- 
respondence-meanings, other meanings to suit particu- 
lar contexts could be derived without much trouble, 
and that if rather older English than we now use had 
to be pressed into service, such English does not lie 
beyond the limits of the standard vocabulary of good 
literature. 

Of the study of science I can say only a few words. 

In education, science is of prime value, not because it 
presents facts, but because it is always pointing to the 
relativity, to the interdependence of fact, thus exciting 
and stimulating the faculties of reason and observation. 

It rises step by step to the great outlines of life and of 
nature. That a scientific man of genius should see vis- 
ions capable of inspiring the loftiest thought and the 
loftiest purpose is patent in the scientific annals of every 
nation. But science insists, to begin with, on direct 
connection between the fact and the object to which 
the fact refers. The educational gain derived from dis- 
secting a lobster is real since the labor affords true 
mental discipline, whereas the committing to memory 
of the divisions of Crustacea affords of itself no mental 
discipline at all. As Prof. Huxley says somewhere, 
the world is in the dyes of science a great picture gal- 
lery in which the pictures have been hanging with their 
faces turned to the wall, it being the business of science 
to turn them the other way. The figure is a striking 
one, and it makes us realize that if the pictures are to 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



158 



be turned the other way they must be touched. To 
read text-books on science is of no more value than to 
read a catalogue of a collection of pictures without see- 
ing the pictures themselves- The most dismal, the 
most useless of dead formulas, if we regard the true 
meaning of education, is to present a text-book in lieu of 
scientific knowledge — to present an instrument instead 
of the thing which the instrument makes. Granting 
that ancient life, ancient languages, ancient beliefs are 
so many dead formulas, we might well ask whether 
the knowledge of science, derived, it may be, from a 
mutilated text-book merely, is an improvement on them. 
If it is felt to be a shameful thing not to know some 
chemistry or botany or physiology, now that these sub- 
jects and subjects like them have assumed imposing 
proportions, teach them, but teach them rationally or 
do not teach them at all. I am told that wherever these 
subjects are taught in schools a practical knowledge is 
insisted on. Is it? Here, again, wherever knowledge 
of science is required for entrance into a University, 
things will not be in a healthy state unless some proof 
of a very simple practical working knowledge of science 
is shown. 

And if subjects of education are numerous now, in 
the future they will be more numerous still. There is 
no escape. Already schools are divided off into classi- 
cal and modern sides; indeed, the knowledge that is 
sufficient for the activities of the commercial world has 
long been taught, without reference to anything that 
lies outside its own immediate sphere. As the horizons 
enlarge, and new and unsuspected grounds become the 
fields of human effort, it will be more than ever a vain 
task to obtain education by making the youthful mind 
scamper to and fro in an attempt to get a passing 
glimpse of everything. The limit of the ground 
common to all will have to be set further back, and the 
element of choice, which now appears in high school 
and college life, will have to be made yet more prom- 
inent. As it is, the school life which looks to higher 
intellectual development ends too soon. This is not 
the fault of the schools but of the colleges which open 
their doors to the youth of sixteen. The work of the 
college should begin at the point which the teaching 
in the average high school has reached, and that point 
is largely determined by the requirements of the 
college. Colleges can easily lower their standards and 
encroach on the ground which legitimately belongs to 
the schools, unless they are careful, and the result will 
be that all school work of a fairly advanced character 
will disappear. 

And now a few words on University life, with 
reference chiefly to the Faculty of Arts. The profes- 
sional Faculties are part of the body corporate, but 
the working out of their destiny lies strictly within 
themselves in its essentials, as it ought to do. When 
we think of a plague-stricken mediaeval world, in which 
hundreds of thousands died from diseases since prac- 
tically extinguished from civilized life or made amena- 
ble to treatment— a world, too, ascribing all this havoc 
to Providence, which we discover to be largely synony- 
mous with dirt and careless habits of life, — we are 



inclined to use the language of others and to call the 
intrusion into Medicine of anything not directly bear- 
ing on it a crime. The knowledge which concerns the 
activities that tend directly and indirectly to self- 
preservation as well as to social well being is largely 
presented in these Faculties, so that their professional 
work removes them from the dead formulas of Herbert 
Spencer. On the face of it, our Faculty has to do with 
formulas, some of which the modern spirit calls dead, 
others living. Suppose that we could annihilate time, 
and stand in presence of the crowning race, towards 
which science has done much to move us, the race 

Of those that, eye to eye, shall look 
On knowledge ; under whose command 
Is Earth and Earth’s, and in their hand 
Is Nature like an open book ; 

No longer half-akin to brute, 

For all we thought and loved and did, 

And hoped, and suffer’d, is but seed 
Of what in them is flower and fruit. 

Will not the flower and the fruit, think you, be 
quite curious to trace the growth of the seed from 
which they have developed ? Will not the science of 
human palaeontology, as Prof. Huxley calls antiquity 
when speaking sympathetically regarding some aspects 
of classical training, be an all-interesting science to 
them ? It may seem strange to some persons that a work 
like Looking Backward looks backward not to Ameri- 
can life but along a continuous chain of thought to 
Athens, where its greater outlines, not its details, were 
discussed by a little knot of men more than two thou- 
sand years ago. Indeed, a great deal of science, even, 
does not bear on activities that lead directly or indirect- 
ly to self-preservation. A knowledge of algebra does 
not bid us go to the poll, or determine us to vote for an 
alderman who promises asphalt instead of mud. We 
have to thank science for asphalt, clean cities, and, a s 
an infallible consequence, a lowered death-rate, but we 
cannot all of us be running about laying down asphalt. 
The result would be eminently unsatislactory ; accord- 
ingly, we leave asphalt to a limited class of experts. 
But, on the other hand, no thoughtful man would 
abolish algebra, because so far as the activities of life 
are concerned, algebra is required by a professional 
class merely ; it has an educational value, and, there- 
fore, is included in a course of mathematical educa- 
tion. 

(To be continued .) 



THE LAST NEW BOOK. 

I gave my boyish leisure to the joys of lettered lore, 

I read uncounted volumes, yet I ever wished for more ; 

On the publishers’ advertisements I kept a watchful look, 

And went with anxious ardor to secure the last new book. 

The flag of knowledge to my friends I readily unfurled, 

All asked me, “ What is doing in the literary world ? ” 

They knew that in its mysteries such interest I took, 

No doubt I guessed the author’s name who wrote the last new 
book. 



mcgill fortnightly. 



159 



Tours, history and essays — poems, memoirs and romance, 

I journeyed through them all, and yet was ever in advance. 

The cheerful and spontaneous “Yes ’ 5 not once my lips for- 
sook, 

When asked the welcome question — Have you read the last 
new book ? ” 

Those palmy days are over, yet I study as before, 

But altered are the rauk and file of literary lore ; 

Tourists, biographers and bards spring up in every nook, 

And publishers in every street announce a last new book. 

My paper knife unceasingly its active duty plies, 

\ et still fresh publications come, still Alps on Alps arise ; 

The leaves are damp as I could wish, yet am I doomed to brook 
A doubt if I have actually obtained the last new book. 

Sometimes I fancy that I hold the treasure that I seek, 

Wheu I hear in consternation that it left the press last week ; 
Nine works in three succeeding days a like excursion took. 

And the Athenaeum warns us of a coming-out new book. 

They flit round me like shadows, and like shadows they depart, 
I stand like panic-struck Macbeth with aching eyes and heart, 
Exclaim with him, “ I'll see no more,” yet cast a shuddering 
look 

On the phantom of “another and another ” last new book. 

Yet the trials that I suffer, other readers must endure. 

They tell me of their troubles, and they ask me for a cure ; 
tc Must we,” impatiently they ask, “ such disappointments 
brook ? 

te And pass our lives in vain attempts to grasp the last new 
book ? ” 

Alas ! my friends, expect me not to aid you with a scheme, 

Ye cannot multiply your hours, ye cannot read by steam ; 
Fairies and Genii long ago their leave of mortals took, 

And none will show you where to find the real last new book. 

Go, fix the eagle in his flight, the sunbeam in its slope, 

Catch a firm cloud before it fall (a plan advised by Pope), 
Suspend the forest’s leafy growth, enchain the bounding brook, 
Then, boast in fearless triumph, ‘ I have read the last new 



RESULTS OF DOUBTING. 

A doubting doubter doubted long, 

His doubts at first seemed very strong ; 
But soon he doubted of his doubt , 

And then a host of doubts broke out ; 
Could he these doubts his own doubts call ? 
Had he felt any doubts at all ? 

Was his first doubt a doubt or not ? 

Were all the rest true doubts or what ? 

So midst these doubtful ins and outs, 
These doubts and doubts about his doubts , 
Doubt upon doubt his doubts did shake, 
Fresh doubts did doubtful answers make, 
Till this was all he could find out, 

That he undoubtedly did doubt. 



AN OLD COLLEGE LIBRARY. 

( Continued .) 

A liking for things that are old ought to need no 
apology, yet these days are so degenerate as almost to 
command such. WIilmi the immediate present seems to 
demand one’s every thought, it may appear to many 
that hours spent communing leisurely with the past in 
an old library are hours wasted. Your professor of 



History or of Literature may be forgiven if he pores 
over ancient tomes. That is his metier. He can 
devour the crabbed print and faded parchment, for 
therein is his sustenance, his daily bread — and dry. 
But he whose calling is quite otherwise must explain 
himself. 

My apology is simple. The fondness for whatsoever 
is antique is to some of us born in the flesh, and cannot 
be gainsaid ; to others it comes as an antidote against 
the rush of this latter day existence. It is good for a 
man to remember that the discoveries of modern 
science are not everything ; that they are an evolution, 
not a revolution ; that indeed they are based on and owe 
themselves to what has gone before, .so that to gain the 
truest appreciation of the present with its seeming new- 
ness it is necessary to understand the past, and thereby 
to possess a right perspective. Nor can I imagine any 
better method of entering into the past than by spending 
a few odd hours among books that have been collected 
together by those of various tastes at various periods, 
and dipping into one after the other as they come to 
hand, — now into an early edition of one of the classics 
or of the Fathers of the church (1) ; now into a collection 
of monkish legends or an illuminated service book ; 
now, on another shelf, into the vigorous polemics of the 
seventeenth century, Catholics and Protestants, Round- 
heads and Cavaliers, Episcopalians and Presbyterians, 
so hammering at one another, that did the written word 
kill, the race of writers would in that century have as- 
suredly died out in totality. On these scarce visited 
shelves their works slumber on, leading as it were a life 
in death. Here is a collection of old law books, folios 
voluminous as their modern successors; there a collec- 
tion of the writers of the Renaissance, and in one alcove 
a goodly assortment of sixteenth and seventeenth 
works upon strategics and fortification such as old 
Mr. Shandy loved to study. Mr. Shandy’s creator 
knew this Library, for his grandfather, the archbishop, 
had been Master of the college, and he, an undergra- 
duate of the same; but these books, I fancy, judging 
from the book plates, found their way hither after 
Tristram’s most eventful birth. 

In roaming around thus, one gains insensibly a love 
for books as books, and becomes interested in their 
development. One sees that the printed leaf began as a 
servile imitation of the manuscript folio, the early 
printers, who were at the same time publishers, aiming 
astutely at the increased production of a valuable article 
at lessened cost — and greater profit. And every genera- 
tion of authors has in sadness discovered that this idea 
of great profit has been passed down unaltered by 
successive generations of the race of publishers. So 
perfect was the imitation, that at a bound printing 
touched its highest point of perfection ; the paper, type 

(1) I do not by this mean for a moment to declare myself a 
classical scholar — would that I were. But it is remarkable how 
in fumbling through these old books the eye seems to be 
arrested at interesting passages. I shall not easily forget how a 
volume of Tertullian opened at the very page which bore that 
most perfect of paradoxes, ‘ Certum est quia impossible,’ the 
paradox that comforted old Sir Thomas Brown, and which, by- 
tlie-by, I see misquoted by a canon of the church in last mouth’s 
contemporary. 



i6o 



■McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



and general arrangement of the books of the end of the 
fifteenth and beginning of the sixteenth centuries are 
such, that with every mechanical appliance we now a- 
days can scarce attain to the beauty of these earliest 
attempts. 

And as with printing so with binding, the point of 
artistic perfection is rapidly reached. Simple round or 
lozenge- shaped stamps, with various devices of a 
mythical or symbolic nature, impressed in the thick 
leather, rapidly give place to well ordered panelling, 

‘ roller ’ patterns and exquisite tracery, so that one is 
inclined to moralize and to wonder whether, taking into 
account human progress as here exemplified, as exem- 
plied also in the history of architecture and, let us say, 
the rise of the steam engine, the evolutionist at large 
has sufficiently admitted the possibility of development 
in various directions being not so much a gradual pro- 
cess as a process of widely separated rapid advances 
with intermediate periods of very gradual change. 

What strange conceits and curious turns of thought 
one comes across in turning over the pages of book after 
book. Here are “ the work’s of the faithfull and pain- 
full preacher, Mr. Elnathan Parr, Batchelour in Divi- 
nity, late Minister in Suffolk,” London 1651. ‘ Pain- 

full ’ indeed was Mr. Elnathan Parr, if we may judge 
him from his address to the reader, for it begins : “ If 
thou readest herein, read to profit thy soule : which 
if thou doe not, we are both losers ; but thou must 
give an account for both our losses.” Or here Mr. 
William de Lisle of Wilburgham dedicates a Saxon 
treatise concerning the Old and New Testament to 
Charles Prince of Wales (afterwards Charles I), and 
in so doing lapses into some pages of verse, whereof 
this is a specimen : — 

The mightie Pan, (1) our hope once, now our hold, 
With matchless wisdom hath prepar’d the waies 
That lead unto this coming Age of Gold, 

And qualifide the furie of our daies ; 

By staying wars, and countermanding vices, 

And crushing th’eggs unhatch’t of Cockatrices. 

Taking down a Zurich printed book of 1577, one 
finds that it still possesses the old green tapes, which 
replaced metal clasps, and on its sides a small central 
boss impressed with the prayerful device : 

IN. KRES. OVR. KNOLEYGES : O. LORD. 

(1) James I. 

Among the theses and tracts it is that some of the 
most curious writings are discoverable. For instance, 
Theodore Bang of Copenhagen writes several exercises 
most learnedly (in 1657). These are collected together 
under the title Coelum Orientis, and the questions 
he seeks to answer are: 1. Whether the use of letters 
has been eternal. 2. To whom to ascribe the invention. 

3. Was Adam the inventor. 4. Whether Adam in- 
structed his children and posterity in letters before the 
flood, and so on. Martinus Lipenius of Halle in 1660 
gives an illustrated account of Solomon’s route to Ophir. 
Yet other quaint exercises of this nature might be 
adduced, showing how the search after the novel and 



abstruse was as wild or wilder in the seventeenth 
century than it is at the present. But it is especially 
in connection with the religious controversies of that 
century that the writing becomes wildest. We have a 
Bishop of Ossory— Williams— writing a folio upon 
“The great Antichrist revealed, proving the West- 
minster assembly and the Rump Parliament to be the 
soul and body of the great Antichrist respectively and 
Mr. William Watson, writing “ A Decacordon of ten 
quodlibeticall questions concerning religion and State ; 
wherein the authour, framing himself a quilibet to 
every quodlibet, decides a hundred crosse Interrogatory 
doubts about the generall contentions between the 
Seminarie Priests and the Jesuits” (1602). 

It is interesting to note one or two early books in 
connection with America. Thus there is the great 
Hugo Grotius’ little tract of sixteen pages written in 
1642, “ De origine Gentium Americanum,” in which, 
if I remember rightly, he derives the races of Indians 
from the Norwegians on one side, the Tartars on the 
other ; and resting unostentatiously in its original green 
morocco binding with the somewhat misleading title 
“Indian Bible,” is the first complete edition of John 
Eliot’s Bible published at Cambridge, Mass., in 1663. 
This, judging from the long account of the thirty or more 
copies described in the Bibliography of the Algonquian 
Languages, recently published at Washington, is of 
greater value than any, for not only is it perfect but it 
bears that which none of them would seem to possess, 
the “Apostle of the Indians’” own handwriting, a 
dedication to his old College : 

Pro Collegio Jesu. 

Accipias, mater, quod alumnus humillimus offert. 

Filius, oro preces semper habere tuas. 

Johannes Eliot. a. 



A SUMMER IN THE ADIRONDACKS. 

The Adirondacks can be seen from the top of Mount 
Royal, and they are by no means the least important 
of those fine mountain ranges which shut in the South- 
ern horizon. This fact gives us as residents of Mon- 
treal a certain interest in them, an interest which it is 
reasonable to suppose would be increased by closer 
acquaintance. I spent two summers in their midst, 
one in Saranac and one on the Keene Valley side. It 
is the story of the second which I purpose telling in this 
placq, 

Keene Valley is not so accessible as Saranac, but on 
the other hand it is much more interesting. From 
Ausable Forks or from Westport to Keene Centre is a 
distance of about twenty miles. This journey must be 
made by stage. I chose the former as a starting point 
and was rewarded for some small discomforts by mak- 
ing the acquaintance of the entire length of Keene 
\ allej , \\ hich is well worth seeing. The carriage-road 
skirts the edge of a small river. On each side rises a 
chain of mountains. The fields at that period of the 
year were sprinkled with every shade of green. Wheat 
and clover seemed to grow riper under our eyes. The 
opulence of the scene was enchanting. Unfortunately 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



6 1 



we were pursued by a cloud of dust so thick that it was 
at times impossible to see through it. It was a bitter 
disappointment, but our experiences were not by any 
means unusual. The soil is so porous, that two hours 
after a heavy shower the roads are dry enough for foot- 
passengers. Before two days have elapsed, the sky is 
darkened with great clouds of dust. But these trifles 
are soon forgotten. 

Much depends on the first impression, and it is with 
delight I hear that my landlord is an old guide- That 
is a guarantee of all sorts of things, of good fare and — 
good stories I was going to say. But no. Contrary to all 
reasonable expectation, Adirondack stories are poor. 
I have been shut up for days with guides and never 
heard a story worth listening to, much less worth 
repeating. The good fare, however, is no illusion, and 
a mountain appetite, sharpened by the bracing moun- 
tain air, does full justice to it. See the steaming viands 
of your first supper — brook trout, beef steak (frozen 
meat from Chicago), baked potatoes, griddle cakes, hot 
maple syrup, fresh butter, fresh milk, Delicious ! 

Both on account of its wonderful natural beauties 
and its distance from railroads, Keene Valley is the 
favorite summering place of a considerable number of 
artists. They are met everywhere perched on curious 
mounts. Their summer cottages, which rest against 
the foot of the hills, have a very fine effect. The Bra- 
zilian ambassador has just erected a castle in the neigh- 
borhood. Even in the mountains Mr. Mendacez keeps 
a handsome pair of horses and a very correct out- 
fit. That improves the appearance of a country road. 

My proprietor guide, an infatuated and altogether 
too loquacious admirer of his birth-place, gave me no 
peace until I consented to make an excursion to Lake 
Ausable. Well provided with fishing-tackle we made 
our start one fine July morning, passed a hotel where 
ladies, brilliant with diamonds, were sitting on the 
verandah, and an instant later reached the edge of 
the wood. We took a last look at the civilization 
which we were not to see again for several days, and at 
the sun which would only reappear at the end of a 
three mile drive and an ascent of about eight hundred 
feet. The road was as smooth as St. Catherine street 
and kept apparently with more care. Imagine the 
strange combination. All about us the powerful 
tangled vegetation of 'a virgin forest, huge moss- 
covered boulders, venerable monarchs of the forest, 
whilst at every turn we met groups of young girls in 
elegant summer costumes, lively mustachioed pater- 
familias smoking cigars and sniffing the cool air of the 
woods. On our arrival at the end of the carriage road, 
we left our horse in care of the ranger and got into a 
small craft which carried us in a jiffy to the other end of 
the lake. A pretty long 11 portage ” through the woods 
came next. A short row on the second lake brought 
us to our destination, which was, believe me, in the 
heart of a forest fifteen or twenty miles in breadth. 
And with the exception of a few bald summits, lost 
amongst the vast wooded slopes by which we were 
surrounded, the eye found no resting place, no break in 
the universal waving green. It is a moving sight and 
its magnificence takes one by surprise. The vastness 



of this district, where men count for so little and nature 
is so imposing, communicates to the soul a wholesome 
and quieting humility. 

A guide’s first care is to provide a bed ; so that we 
set at once to work to obtain a supply of pine boughs. 
Only the fine sweet-smelling tips are taken. These 
are, so to speak, strung on a forked branch (like trout) 
and thrown across the shoulders. In this way one can 
carry a very considerable quantity. It is no small art 
to place them. They are packed close, the green of one 
branch corn ering the stem of another. Of all human 
inventions the bed of pine boughs is the most delect- 
able. It is soft, fragrant and dances like a spring. 
Reclining on this elastic couch and contemplating the 
lake through the open-fronted cabin, one feels a benevo- 
lent pity for the rest of humanity. Why can they not 
all enjoy these peaceful sights, see the deer at nightfall 
leaning delicately over the edge of the water to drink ? 

The Ausable Lake and twenty thousand acres of the 
surrounding woods belong to the Ausable Mountain 
Reserve. The lake and brooks are stocked regularly with 
trout and the catch is limited by very strict regulations. 
There appears to be more fishing than the proprietors 
need for themselves, or else the democratic spirit of the 
country makes itself felt even in these wilds. The gen- 
eral public is admitted in very small numbers on pay- 
ment of a substantial charge The tariff, “quand je le 
vis, etait d’une grosseur raisonnable.” Three dollars a 
day for a guide, one dollar and a half per day for the per- 
mit (catch not to exceed ten lake trout), a number of 
small expenses. I add with repugnance that the pine 
boughs are put down in the account. For my little 
part I kept my expenses as low as possible, and had the 
satisfaction of taking twenty- three pounds of trout. To 
get these beauties I was obliged to turn out at day- 
break and be rowed around the lake almost two entire 
days. We kept our catch for some time under leaves, 
then sent it to the ice house on the lower lake. The 
ice-house is a great convenience, but is far from indispen- 
sable. It was after some hesitation even that we decided 
not to place our basket in the natural ice-house, the Ice 
Cave, a hollow in the side of the mountain filled with 
snow anid ice which never entirely melt. This cave is 
not by any means shut off from the air and the light. 
The sky can be seen from the bottom, and, if it were not 
for the great mass of the mountain and its northern 
aspect, it would be difficult to explain the presence of 
this snow until the middle of July in so exposed a 
situation. The Adirondack people are also very proud 
of their “Rainbow Falls.” I shall not do more 
than mention this wonderful work of nature, not merely 
because I am unable to describe it, but because it is so 
absolutely and divinely beautiful as to render all de- 
scription ludicrous. The sun penetrates the gorge for a 
sliort time in the middle cf the day and colors the 
spray of the fall with all the tints ol the rainbow. 
Hence the name. 

A very interesting summer institution, and one with 
which our own University has some connection 
through its Professor of Philosophy, is Dr. Davidson’s 
School of Philosophy. It is situated at Easthill, near 
Keene, and overlooks the valley from an elevation of 



162 



McGill fortnightly. 



about eight hundred feet. Facing the school quar- 
ters is a long and grand mountain-chain. Mr. David- 
son’s farm is perhaps the highest inhabited point in 
the Adirondack^, as it is fully two thousand feet above 
sea-level. It is well covered with wood and crossed by a 
brook, one of those Adirondack brooks sketched in 
large and powerful lines by nature in a generous mood, 
The atmosphere at Easthill is remarkably pure, 
there are charming excursions to be made by carriage, 
living is cheap, one makes delightful acquaintances, 
and I can heartily recommend a few weeks stay at the 
School to those who care to unite advanced studies 
with the high emotions which such natural magnifi- 
cence inevitably inspires. 

Mr. Davidson, the proprietor of the school, is a man 
of wide experience and great learning. Born in the 
Highlands of Scotland, he was, I believe, for some time 
connected with education in Aberdeen. His travels 
have taken him, like Ulysses, among many men and 
into many countries. Five years in Italy in the society 
of church dignitaries, two years in Greece, I do not 
know how many years in France and Germany, 
have given him the ability to express himself with 
facility in the principal tongues of Europe. Mr. David- 
son is endowed with an unexampled memory and 
appears to possess at his finger-tips all systems of 
philosophy and all literatures. . Without the smallest 
hesitation he will repeat you any passage of In 
Memoriam, Faust, The Divina Commedia. Plato, 
Aristotle and Thomas Aquinas are his daily compan- 
ions. In one word, he is a scholar of extraordinary 
attainments. Now, if you ask me why a man of so 
many talents does not profess in any university, why he 
limits his activity (I am not speaking of his writings) to 
the instruction of a hundred persons or thereabouts, 
mostly dilettanti, for two months of the year, and some 
private winter courses in New York, I have no answer 
to make except that he belongs to a stiff-necked race, 
intolerant of the yoke of supervision. Rather than 
accommodate himself to the ways of ordinary humanity, 
Mr. Davidson will forego all the rewards of ambition 
and deprive himself of the opportunity of exercising a 
considerable influence on the men of the next genera- 
tion. Mr. Davidson dearly loves his independence, and 
if you show him the charms of a life sheltered from all 
uncertainty, he points with horror to the chain about 
your neck. He absolutely refuses to set his watch by 
the clocks of the country he is in. None the less, per- 
haps indeed on that account, he has a large heart, a 
heart of gold, full of “ perfervidum ingenium 
Scotorum.” 

Around this central figure the accessories group 
easily and naturally — a curious collection of types and 
nationalities: Jews, Germans, Englishwomen, and, en 
fait cT Americains, New Yorkers, Bostonians, Western- 
ers, a colony of Virginian ladies ; a Canadian con- 
tingent by no means to be despised ; Socialists, Thom- 
ists, Hegelians; blue-stockings, originals of all shades. 
A curious collection, I repeat, but one which was 
not without its charm. Complete liberty of opinion 
and attire. Some of us made a very liberal use of the 



latter privilege, and shone by the absence of coquetry. 
The strong-minded carried the day along the whole 
line. Women occupied a considerable place and held 
it with credit. It is only proper to say that schools of 
philosophy on the other side of the line attract an elite 
of young American girls, educated, intelligent and 
accomplished. At Mr. Davidson’s there was a large 
number of ladies who had taken their degree or were 
working for it. Some even had distinguished them- 
selves. 

A dozen professors and lecturers supplied intellec- 
tual food for this society. Amongst their number 
were some well-known names, such as Dr. Harris, 
United States Commissioner of Education ; Dr. Schur- 
man, at that time Dean of the Sage School in Cornell 
(a good Canadian, by the way) ; and our own Dr. Clark 
Murray. 

The following is a part of the programme of studies, 
the choice is by no means narrow : — Aristotle’s Ethics, 
Middle Age Mysticism, Comparative Religion, Hegel, 
the Will, Habits, the Fairy Queen, Julius Caesar 
(Shakspeare), the Inferno et alia similia. In the morn- 
ing there were two lectures, each lasting an hour and 
a half. In the evening meetings were held of a freer 
and more informal character. At the close of the lec- 
ture the audience took part in a discussion on the 
subject in question. Sometimes it was interesting. 

Afternoons and Saturdays were reserved for mountain 
tramps and private study. Occasionally excursions 
were organized to more distant parts of the hills, to 
waterfalls, etc. Carriages could be hired at very reason- 
able rates. In the course of these trips I have seen 
exquisite pictures, altogether unique ; among others a 
certain cottage on the fringe of the forest. (In passing, 
let me .say that Adirondack camps are the last word of 
rustic elegance. They are perfect marvels of beauty, 
more especially in the Saranac Lake country.) The 
interior of this cottage was completely lined with birch- 
bark. In the rear flowed a noble brook, broken by small 
rapids and falls, forming pools of the purest crystal. 
The table was set under three might} 7 trees uniting at 
their summits in a wide baldaquin. I can not say how 
lovely it was, what a paradise was hidden there in the 
woods only a few feet from the public highway. 

On Saturday evening there was a general gathering 
for pleasure. Good music, recitations and private 
theatricals divided the honors. The previous year 
As Y ou Like It was represented by amateurs in rustic 
costume. A stage was improvised beside the brook. 
Under the trembling shelter of the tree-tops to the 
accompaniment of falling waters, an exquisite Rosalind 
(who has since earned fame abroad) played her immor- 
tal part. 

In conclusion, I should like to emphasize the serious 
and truth-seeking spirit that prevailed in this society. 
The atmosphere, in spite of a little needless hetero- 
doxy, was wholesome. Mr. Davidson founded the 
Glenmore School in order to spread moral and in- 
tellectual culture. His respectable intentions have 
borne fruit. 



!*• R. G. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



163 



THE OPENING OF THE NEW SCIENCE 
BUILDINGS. 

On Friday morning, the 24th February, the Mac- 
donald Engineering Building was formally declared 
open by His Excellency the Governor-General. In 
the afternoon, and with all due ceremony, the Mac- 
donald Physics Building entered on its history, so far as 
the public are concerned ; and the thousands who 
assembled in the evening in the spacious rooms of the 
Engineering Building had an opportunity of seeing for 
themselves the greatness of the work which two years 
ago had its visible inception in the laying of a corner- 
stone bearing the inscription : 

Coi ner Stone laid by 

LORD STANLEY OF PRESTON, G-C.B., P.C., 

GOVERNOR GENERAL, OF CANADA. 

October 30, 1 890. 

It was a grand day for McGill College, and most 
peculiarly it was a grand day for theFaculty of Applied 
Science — one of rejoicing for the promoters of scientific I 
education in connection with our University, and one 
which must be unspeakably gratifying to our benefactor, 



as well as to perfect the many details of the other 
departments of the system The work was entered on 
with zeal by all, for each took a pride in contributing to 
the success of the occasion. 

The first event of the day was set for io o'clock, and 
very shortly after 9, visitors began to arrive. 

On entering the Engineering Building, the first thing 
that impressed one was the appearance of solidity 
which pervaded everything. Nothing in the interior 
looked insignificant. Nothing without a suggestion of 
utility. 

O11 this particular morning, however, any severity of 
style was fully atoned for by the tastefulness of the 
decorations. Flowering plants and palms stood in suit- 
able corners and niches, doors and windows were draped 
with flags, red and white and blue, carpets extended 
along the receding corridors, and in places thick rugs 
concealed the hard brightly polished floor. The oak 
beams of the ceiling were hung with bright strips 
of cloth, which, gracefully drooping, still suggested 
to the mind of the student a chain of thought which 
ended in the Examination hall, and he made a mental 




Experimental Engine# 



who has given so freely of his substance that know- 
ledge might be exalted. Looking at the event in a more 
general sense, it cannot be better characterized than in 
the words of an eminent visitor from the United States, 
who pronounced it to be the most brilliant and suc- 
cessful ceremony of its kind which had ever taken 
place on the Continent- 

Such a happy result was not brought about without 
an endless expenditure of energy and an incalculable 
amount of forethought on the part of those who had 
charge of the arrangements for Friday's events. Four 
weeks previously the date of the opening was finally de- ; 
cided on, and in the meantime much required to be done 
in order to transform the Thermodynamic, Electrical 
and Hydraulic Laboratories from the state of confusion 
and preparation which they then presented to that of 
the order and completeness of the morning of the 24th, 



note to acquire some additional information on the 
subject of the catenary. The guests proceeded up two 
flights of stairs to the drawing rooms, which had been 
provided with a crimson-covered platform and seats to 
accommodate about a thousand persons. 

Visitors were constrained to pause, however, on 
reaching the head of the first stairs to cast an admiring 
glance at the decorations of the Students reading room. 
There was a profusion of flags and class banners, 
photographs of football teams, a large photograph of 
the Principal ; shields bearing on a crimson ground the 
names of the College societies in silver and gold letters 
adorned the walls. 

Over the door on a shield were inscribed in such a 
manner that he who ran might read the mystic charac- 
ters of the Faculty yell, heard so frequently in the pro- 
ceedings of the day in conjunction with the decided 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



staccato of the College cry- The Students themselves 
had thus adorned their favorite halting-place between 
lectures. 

In cap and gown the Undergraduates formed them- 
selves into a living balustrade, right up the stairs, 
encouraging activity on the part of the gentler sex 
whom they familiarly designated by the general term of 
Sister Mary — or made themselves useful in finding seats 
for guests. 

Sharp at io, when all was expectancy the Governor 
General’s carriage arrived, and Lord Stanley had no 
sooner set foot in the vestibule than the halls rang with 
“ He’s a jolly good fellow ” and repeated cheers. The 
vice-regal party proceeded to Prof. Bovey’s room, while 
the Undergraduates modestly arranged themselves, one 
hundred and fifty of them and more, in the corner 
nearest the door, to delight the audience with the New 
Science Song, to give themselves a most enthusiastic 
encore and to persuade themselves to render with great 
spirit ‘ ‘ kemo kivio 



C. E. Dodwell, Poole (Stellarton, N-S.), Prof. Chandler, 
R. B. Angus, Prof. J. T. Nicholson, Dr. MacPhail, 
George Hague, John Birkinbine (ex-president of the 
American Institute of Mining Engineers), Andrew T. 
Taylor, James Ferrier, Prof. Harrington, P. A. Pater- 
son, R. W. Heneker, chancellor of the University of 
Bishop’s College ; Prof. A- R. C. Selwyn, Joel C Baker 
and Prof. Harrington- 

After prayers' by the chaplain. Rev. Geo. Murray, Sir 
Donald A. Smith, K.C.M.G., M.P, chancellor of the 
University, presented an address to the Governor 
General in behalf of the Governors, Principal and 
Fellows of McGill- To say that the Chancellor was 
greeted with applause would be to put it mildly. It 
was some minutes before the reading of the address 
could be begun. Below is the text. 

To His Excellency the Right Honorable Baron Stanley oj 
Preston , G.C.B., P.C., Governor General of Canada. 

May it please Your Excellency. 

We, the governors, principal and fellows of McGill College 
and University, have great pleasure in receiving within its halls 




The Smithy. 



By this time the party had arrived from the dressing 
room, magnificent in their pink and scarlet and ermine, 
to be greeted by the standing audience with the Natio- 
nal Anthem. The platform soon filled. His Excellency 
was accompanied by Lord Kilcoursie, A.D.C., and 
Hon. W. Walsh A D C. There were besides in atten- 
dance : Sir Donald A. Smith, chancellor of the Univer- 
sity ; Chief Justice Sir Alexander Lacoste, Sir Casimir, 
Gzowski, A.D.C.; Hon. G. Ouimet, Mr. Justice David- 
son, Mr. Justice Wurtele, Rev. Prof. Clark Murray 
Hon. Senator Desjardins, mayor of Montreal ; W. C. 
Macdonald, Prof. Alex. Johnson, Prof. Bovey, Rev. Dr. 
Barbour, Rev. Principal Adams, Rev. Principal Mac- 
Vicar, Dr. Raymond, James A. Cantlie, E. P. Hanna- 
ford, John Kennedy, Principal Grant, S. Finley, Prof. 
C. H. McLeod, E. B. Greenshields, Dr. D. McEachran, 
Rev. Prof. Shaw, R. Surtees (Ottawa), Perrault 
(Ottawa), W. E- Gower, Prof. Darey, C. J. Fleet, Prof. 
Carus’Wilson, Herbert Wallis, Principal Archambau It. 



the honored representative of our beloved Queen, and we gladly 
take this fitting opportunity to express on behalf of ourselves 
and the University renewed heartfelt and unswerving loyalty to 
Her Majesty and attachment to the empire of which this Dom- 
inion forms no small part. 

In the next place, we would sincerely thank Your Excellency 
for your presence with us to day, and we beg to offer you a 
most cordial welcome. 

To Lady Stanley our thanks are uo less due. We regard her 
intended visit as a significant mark of her interest in our devel- 
opment. To woman’s aid the University is much indebted for 
its progress, and in its turn, by opening wide its doors, it is 
seeking to promote the; best interests of womanhood. * 

A little more than two years ago, on October 30th, 1890, 
Your Excellency did us the honor of laying the corner stone of 
this building, which is now completed and fully equipped with 
the most recent appliances for the prosecution of investigations 
in all departments of engineering. 

Within the same interval the Physics building has been 
erected, and although not yet fully equipped, will soon, accord- 
ing to the wishes of the donor, be on a par in this respect with 
the Engineering building. 



McGill fortnightly. 



,65 



It is unnecessary for us to name the citizen of Montreal who 
with liberal hand and public spirit has bestowed this, as well 
as other great gifts, on this University not only as it now is, but 
as it will be. 

the scale on which the gifts have been made plainly indi- 
cates that conviction, so widely felt, of the coming expansion of 
this part of Her Majesty's dominions, and makes a wise provi- 
sion for it. 

In the same spirit and with a like object did the late Thomas 
Workmau make a bequest of a large sum of money for the 
erection and endowment of the adjoining workshops. We 
trust that the recognition of this belief in the future greatness 
of Canada, and the determination to promote it, will be a source 
of satisfaction to \ our Excellency, inasmuch as you have 
always shown so great an interest in the growth of this country, 
and more especially in the applications of science in its develop- 
ment. 

It is now our pleasing duty to invite Your Excellency to 
declare the McDonald Engineering and Physics buildings and 
the Mechanical Workshops open. I11 doing so may we be 
allowed to add that we consider ourselves extremely fortunate 
in having for the official visitor of our University one so ready 
to take an active part in all that pertains to its progress in 



course of his remarks, by ardent assurances from the 
corner that things were in a most satisfactory condi- 
tion. An anxious enquiry as to the well-being of the 
“Guv” was replied to in the same earnest fashion, 
and in tones which carried conviction with them. And 
there was no mistaking the sentiment which called 
forth the wildest demonstration on the mention of Mr. 
McDonald’s name. 

Mr. McDonald then with a few words, which were 
heard only by those nearest him. handed the keys of 
the building to the Governor General. They were made 
from the first metal tested in the laboratory, and were 
enclosed in a box made of teak from the Beaver,” the 
first steamship which rounded Cape Horn. 

Lord Stanley then rose, and when the cheering had 
subsided thanked them for the cordial manner in which 
he had been received as the representative of his 
Sovereign in what he might call his native University 
of McGill (applause), and assured them that these 




The Foundry. 



every direction, and may we venture to express the hope that 
Your Excellency will continue to take an interest in its future. 

(Signed), Donald A. Smith, Chancello 7 \ 

After reading the address, Sir Donald expressed the pleasure 
felt by the Faculty at the presence of His Excellency, expressed 
regret at Lord Stanley’s probable departure from Canada in the 
near future, regretted the cause of Lady Stanley’s absence, and 
also regretted the absence of Sir William Dawson, who, how- 
ever, he was happy to state, was making great progress towards 
recovery, aud there was every prospect of his soon being restored 
to health and vigor. He expressed the gratitude of the Uni- 
versity to all who had been aided so nobly in making it what 
it is ; it need now bow to no one, for at present it stood on a 
par with any university in America or Europe, and its School of 
Medicine had such a reputation that its graduates were wel- 
comed everywhere with open arms. With the buildings lately 
presented, with the magnificent appliances now possessed, the 
future of the Science department,— in fact, of the entire Univer- 
sity — promised everything that could be wished for. I11 conclu- 
sion, he expressed the hope that the Government would consider 
it advisable to take off the duty on books and pamphlets im- 
ported as necessary adjuncts to education. 

As was fitting, the Chancellor was frequently inter- 
rupted during the reading of the address, and in the 



tokens of loyalty and personal devotion to the Sovereign 
would be presented by him in due course to Her 
Majesty, who was at all times concerned in the welfare 
of her subjects, and especially those in the Dominion 
of Canada. He thanked them also for the kindly 
references which had been made to L,ady Stanley, who 
was prevented from being present owing to duties 
devolving upon her which no true woman could dis- 
regard. He was very much pleased and gratified at 
being permitted to be present to do honor to Mr. 
McDonald (cheers) who by his munificence had erected 
two such magnificent buildings, and so well and com- 
pletely equipped, for the Faculty of Applied Science. 
Mr. McDonald, he said he was sure, could not deny that 
the amount of his benefactions would have to be 
expressed in seven figures and not six. He then 
referred to the Dean of the Faculty, Prof Bovey , as 
reminding him of perpetual motion personified in the 
flesh, and who had enabled him to look at some of the 
equipment of the building. What he had seen had aston- 
ished him. He had had the good fortune to see many 
equipments of this nature, and he must say that he had 




McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



1 66 



never seen anything equal to it. He spoke of the 
apparatus he had inspected, with special reference to 
that engine which could be taken to pieces in sixteen 
different ways, and which to re-erect would require 
extreme guile. He had no doubt that as a result of all 
the appliances with which the students were supplied 
in these workshops new discoveries fully worthy of 
the highest Canadian science would be made. (Ap- 
plause.) He joined with them in the genuine regret 
which had been expressed at the absence of their 
revered Principal, Sir Wm. Dawson, and he suggested 
that they should collectively send him a telegram of 
condolence, and announce the opening of the building. 
He was glad to welcome so many distinguished visitors 
from the other side of the border. We were always glad 
to welcome men of science, or any person, in fact, from 
across the border, to show them that we in Canada were 
in a thriving and healthy condition, and he trusted that 
before the day was over they would own that even the 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology could not sur- 
pass some of the work which they would see within 
those walls. This was indeed high praise, for no- 
where, except in the United States, had more benefac- 
tions been made or put to better use. He thanked them 
once more for their cordial greetings, and assured them 
that he could only reiterate the sentiment which would 
last to his dying day of cordial thanks to the University 
of McGill for the kindness which one and all had 
always shown him, for the undying interest in its 
future success, with a gratitude which would only end 
with his life. 

Mr. J. A. Macphail then presented His Excellency 
with the following address on behalf of the Under- 
graduates : — 

To His Excellency the Right Hon, Baron Stanley of Preston , 

G C.B, y LL.D. } Governor-General of Canada. 

May it please Your Excellency, 

It seems fitting that the Undergraduates, for whose direct 
benefit these magnificent and splendidly equipped buildings 
have been constructed, should present an address to Your 
Excellency on this occasion. Owing to the munificent dona- 
tions of Mr. W. C. McDonald and Mr. Thomas Workman, the 
Students in Applied Science feel that their Faculty now gives a 
course of scientific instruction equal to any furnished in the 
most advanced institutions of this continent or of Europe. The 
present flourishing condition of the school is a happy augury of 
still further development in the immediate future, and the Stu- 
dents venture to express the hope that what has been so auspi- 
ciously begun may lead to other foundations as generously 
conceived and as effectively planned as these, which will always 
be gratefully connected with the names inscribed over their 
portals. 

It is gratifying to direct the attention of Your Excellency to 
the fact that graduates of this School have already attained dis- 
tinction in the world of practical science, and it is more gratify- 
ing still to attribute such success in large measure to the careful 
training received in McGill University. Many of the Students 
in whose name this address is presented were assembled two 
years ago when Your Excellency laid the foundation-stone of 
this building, and they congratulate both the University and 
their own Faculty on an event which enables Your Excellency to 
witness, after so brief an interval, a development of one of the 
departments of McGill University, which, they believe, has not 
been surpassed in the academic history of this continent. 

The Students regret that the effects of a severe illness have ' 



prevented the Principal of this University, Sir William Dawson, 
who has always taken so great an interest in the welfare of this 
Faculty, from being present to-day, and they feel that they utter 
a sentiment which Your Excellency shares, when they express 
the hope that Sir William may return to the University with 
renewed health and vigor. The Students in Applied Science are 
thankful for the deep interest which Your Excellency has 
always shown in the progress of the University, and they trust 
that the successive representatives of the Queen in this Domin- 
ion will evince towards the University feelings similar to those 
which have prompted Your Excellency to be present here to- 
day. In conclusion, the Students of Applied Science beg to ex- 
press the hope that continued health, honor and prosperity will 
fall to the lot of Your Excellency and of Lady Stanley of 
Preston, whose absence from the day’s ceremonies is deeply 
regretted. 

(Signed), 

Chairman of Com., J. H. Featherston. 

President of the 4th year, J. A. Macphail. 

President of the 3rd year, A. R. Holden. 

President of the 2nd year, W. F. Angus. 

President of the 1st year, Gordon T. Alley. 

Secretary of Com., L. A. Herdt. 



iiuv-Mvaiu j. xx. x c-aLu ci in d ievv nappv 
remarks, introduced Mr. Gill, who presented His Excel- 
lency for Lady Stanley with a handsome cabinet made 
by himself in the Science Workshops, of innumerable 
pieces of wood of all colors, and deftly fitted together 
with artistic effect. 

Lord Stanley in replying regretted the absence of 
Lady Stanley, and hoped that Mr. Gill would take an 
early opportunity of placing the cabinet in her own 
hands and receiving her personal thanks. In Her 
Excellency’s name he thanked the donor, and assured 
him that Lady Stanley would deeply appreciate the 
gift. He urged the Undergraduates to conduct them- 
selves at all times as true citizens of the Dominion and 
as worthy undergraduates, worthy sons of their 
Alma Mater — McGill. 

Sir Donald rose and announced that he had just 
received word that the Quebec Legislature had shown 
their confidence in McGill by deciding not to ask for 
an extra medical examination. The spirit in which 

this announcement was received shows what an interest 

the Students take in McGill as represented by the 
sister faculties. 

Those who were to speak on the occasion were called 
upon in order by the Chancellor. 

The merest notice will be given to these speeches in 
this place. They were most brilliant examples of the 
speaker s art, and were heard with rapt attention. 
Seldom have men to deal with a more sympathetic 
audience than that assembled on this occasion 

The extended report which the proceedings merit 
will be given in a pamphlet shortly to be issued by the 
Faculty of Applied Science. 

Premier Fielding, of Nova Scotia, heartily joined in 
the congratulations to McGill in this the new evident 
of prosperity and success, and wished it even grea “ 
prosperity in the future than in tile past. 

Chief Justice Lacoste said that tin* o-rof,** a 
only of McGill was due to Mr. Macdonald for the fine 
buddmgs, but the gratitude of all Canadians was due 



I 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



167 



Mayor Desjardins expressed the gratitude of the city 
at the presence of Lord Stanley, and said that the city 
\vas proud of McGill, as not only a Montreal but a 
Canadian institution. It was not only a benefit to the 
•citizens, but to the world. 




MITRE MACHINE. 

Dr. Johnson, Dean of the Faculty of Arts, said that that 
was a day of rejoicing, and he was sure that he spoke 
in the name of the whole University when he regretted 
the cause which had rendered the absence of their 
revered Principal unavoidable. It was due to him more 
than any one else that the University had reached the 
position which it occupied to-day. He then read a 
letter received from Sir William a few days ago, which 
expressed deep regret that he was exiled in the South 
upon the occasion of the opening of this magnificent 
building, and expressed the hope that the Faculty of 
Applied Science would flourish to such a degree that 
it would be a most complete and efficient technical 
school. Dr. Johnson then read a telegram, which had 
been drafted to Sir William Dawson, as follows: — 
“The University, including His Excellency the 
Governor-General and its friends, assembled at the 
opening of the Engineering and Physics buildings, 
send greetings to the Principal, with regret for his 
absence and heartiest wishes for his speedy restoration 
to health and restoration to its halls.” 

The answer came shortly — “Congratulations and 
good wishes to the University, to Mr. Macdonald and 
to all.” 

Addresses were also delivered by Dr. Howe, president 
of the American Institute of Mining Engineers; Mr. 
Birkiubine, ex-president of the same Association ; Mr. 
C. McDonald, vice-president of the American Society 
of Civil Engineers ; Dr. Raymond, ex-president of the 
American Institute of Mining Engineers ; Mr. E.- P. 
Hannaford, Sir Casimir Gzowski and Mr. C. Keefer. 

Prefessor Bovey read letters of regret from President 
Gildersleeve of the Johns Hopkins University, and 
the presidents of the Chicago and Yale Universities, 
and an address from Professor Coleman Sellers of 
Philadelphia. 

Professor Sellers had intended to be present at the 
opening, but was prevented at the last momeut, and 
committed his views to the Dean in a letter whose 
contents are so pertinent to the occasion that some 
space will be given to them here. Professor Sellers said 
that the greater part of his life having been devoted to 
scientific study, he was well able to appreciate the 
importance of the instruction given in such schools. 



He showed the advantages of a scientific education 
by some remarks of Mr. Geo. W. Childs of Philadelphia, 
in which the latter has always found that in calling for 
assistance in literary work on the Ledger there 
were always thousands of applicants who had earned 
high honor at leading colleges, but were unable to 
obtain profitable employment, whereas when a posi- 
tion requiring technical knowledge was vacant, few 
applicants, if any, answered the call. 

In one large New England establishment employing 
160 draughtsmen, Prof. Sellers found that the majority 
were foreigners, but those rising to distinction were 
young men from the principal technical schools in- 
America. 

At the opening of the new buildings of the Univer- 
sity of Pennsylvania, being called upon to say a few 
words, Prof. Sellers had expressed his opinion on the 
importance of a technical education. At the same time 
he could only speak as a shop-bred engineer, and felt the 
weakness that results from a lack of early educational 
advantages as obtained in an Arts Course ; nevertheless, 
a young man’s time is too short to acquire a scientific 
knowledge after having passed through the regular 
course of college education. 

Before Prof. Sellers left .school in 1843, since there 
were no technical colleges, he had found it necessary to 
drop Greek and Latin and devote his time to the study 
of scientific subjects. 

“ By careful observation, I have satisfied myself that 
the habit of thought of a Student can be as well taught 
by a systematic training in the natural sciences and 
mathematics properly handled as in the many years 
devoted to the ordinary college course. 

“ That the ordinary college course separate and dis- 
tinct from what is known as the scientific 
course does not properly train the mind may 
be seen from the fact that whenever any so called 
startling discovery in Science is presented to the 
public, no matter how illogical it may be, if it be pre- 
sented with any degree of plausibility, it will be at once 
accepted by those who have had the highest education 
fitting them to be lawyers or physicians or doctors of 
divinity.” 

He cited Payne’s water-gas as an illustration of a 
pseudo-scientific problem which had been accepted by 
men of broadest education, but when analysed by a 
technically trained persons showed nothing but fraud. 

Conservation of energy and correlation of forces, 
which are only taught in scientific schools, should be 
taught, in his opinion, in every primary school. 
“Every child should be made to know that in the 
universe there are bounds and limits to everything.” 

“ For hundreds of years there have been colleges of 
law, medicine and theology, but it is only through the 
scientific schools, as they are becoming gradually im- 
proved, that men are prepared to take up their work 
as scientists. 

“ The education needed for the nineteenth century is 
the education in the path of human progress, with all 
else from the past that the time at command will en- 
able the student to assimilate and digest.” • 




168 McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



It was now after i o’clock, and the proceedings 
were declared ended ; the people left, feeling that it 
had been good for them to be there, and in tones not 
yet a whit hoarse came the vigorous “ Rah, Ree, 
Rye,” of the boys, reaching the remotest corners of 
the building. 

In the upper room of the Workman building, which 
served as a refreshment room, a table was prettily laid, 
around which the guests to the number of 150 sat down 
to luncheon, Sir Donald occupying the chair with His 
Excellency immediately to his right. And here there 
was making merry and toasts. And further than this 
your reporter sayeth not, for he did not see this thing 
with his own eyes. 

The carefully arranged programme of the day’s events 
indicated 4 o’clock as the time of the opening of the 
Physics Building, and close on the hour the Governor 
General entered the large theatre, which was already 
crowded with visitors He was accompanied by the 
Chancellor, Sir Donald A. Smith, Mr. W- C. McDonald, 
Sir Casimir Gzowski, Chancellor Henneker of Lennox- 
ville ; Prof. Barker, of the Pennsylvania University ; Dr. 
Johnson, Vice-Principal ; J. W. Brakenridge, Acting 
Secretary ; Professor Bovey, Professor Cox, and others. 

The Students occupied the galleries, and took their 
usual active part in the proceedings. 

Occupying the seats around the lecture table were 
Premier Fielding of Nova Scotia ; Mr. Taylor, the 
architect of the buildings ; Principal Adams of Lennox- 
ville, Rev. Dr. Douglas, Rev. Dr. Barbour, Rev. Dr. 
Shaw, Rev. Dr. Scrimger, Judge Baby, D. A. McPher- 
.son, W. Drysdale, Rabbi Veld, W. Sutherland, Canon 
Ellegoode, Prof. Adami, W. A. Carlyle, H. M. Tory, 
N. N. Evans, R. Bolton, and a number of American 
visitors to the Mining Convention. 

The opening address was given by Prof. Cox. In 
his brilliant style he set forth the purposes for which 
the building was intended, and explained the arrange- 
ments which were there so successfully carried out. 

Its inception, he said, was an incident in the develop- 
ment of the building that had been opened in the 
morning. The Physics building ought to prove a great 
support to the whole University and to the Faculty of 
Arts in particular. It was meant to properly teach 
Physics. A knowledge of Physics was a most impor- 
tant factor in a liberal education. Here would be taught 
elementary principles of science, a knowledge of which 
was so necessary for the proper study of Applied Science 
and to those who studied Medicine and Practical Che- 
mistry. The principles of Electricity, Magnetism, Sound, 
Light and Heat would be taught, and thus the Students 
would be saved perhaps long years of after-study. An 
important part of their work was to be scientific 
research. Another good thing the new Physics build- 
ing would enable them to do : That was to separate 

the heavy machinery and apparatus used for practical 
purposes from the delicate appliances used in experi- 
menting. Mr. Macdonald had been most kind. He 
had placed no limit on the amounts to be spent, and had 
spared nothing that he thought would be required in 
the building. If any fault were to be found with this 
arrangement it could be laid at no one’s door but 



his own. The best appliances that could be made 
had been obtained. Another important factor in fur- 
nishing the building was that they had had the 
experience of 25 years to work on. Since the establish- 
ment of the Physical Laboratory at Cambridge, Eng., 
a number of others had been erected, and the} had got 
ideas from all of them for the present building. After 
paying a tribute to the architect, Mr. Taylor, Professor 
Cox gave a full description of the arrangement of the 
building. There were three great methods of teaching 
by lecture, by the laboratories and by practical research. 
In the equipment, provision had been made for all these 
various departments. The building was well worth}" 
of the site it occupied, of the University and of the vast 
Dominion. 




BUCKTON TESTING MACHINE. 

The Governor-General, upon being called upon, was 
received most heartily. In a happy and appropriate 
address he expressed his pleasure in being present, and 
congratulated the University on the two noble addi- 
tions which had been made through the munificence of 
Mr. Macdonald, to whom His Excellency paid the high- 
est tribute. The donor, he said, had been most modest, 
and would have preferred that his name had been left 
unmentioned. Happily, however, the will of the 
majority had prevailed, and they all knew who had 
shown this great munificence. He was confident that 
the events of the day would only serve to endear Mr. 
Macdonald to the hearts of those who were interested in 
the University. 

He then addressed the Students, and hoped they 
would prove themselves worthy of what had been done 
for them. They should feel that it was their fault 
alone if any but first class men were turned out from 
the building. 

Concluding, he declared the Physics building open 
for the purposes of Science, an announcement which 
was received with the most prolonged cheerings broken 
at intervals by most splendid feats of yelling. 

Chancellor Henneker of Lennoxville was the next 
speaker. He said he brought the congratulations of 
Bishop’s College on this important occasion. Nothing 
had occurred in many years so important as the open- 
ing of the Science Building. He felt that not only 
personal congratulations were in order, but the thanks 
of every school in the Dominion were due to Mr. Mac- 
donald, who had given the opportunity of enlarging so 
materially the field for scientific work and research. He 
also congratulated Professors Bovey and Cox, and paid 
a high tribute to their skill and fitness for the places 
they occupied. Reference was made in pleasing terms 
to Mr. Taylor, the architect, and the difficulties he had 




McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



169 



surmounted in the execution of the work. Dr. Henne- 
ker was an old architect himself, and could understand 
them. He had been trained under Sir Charles Barry, 
the architect of the new palace at Westminster. He 
then proceeded to speak on the great object of Univer- 
sity teaching. It should embrace all classes of learn- 
ing, and all possible efforts should be made to stimulate 
higher education. He concluded by a short address to 
the Students, on whom he said the future of Canada 
depended. 

Professor Barker of the University of Pennsylvania 
referred to the problem of education as being a very 
difficult one, and explained at some length what was 
properly understood by a liberal education. It had been 
mentioned that McGill was under a royal charter. The 
University he belonged to was also under a royal charter 
when it was first organized in 1743. Then a brief ex- 
planation of what was meant by physics followed. Its 
earlier name was Natural Philosophy, and was, as ex- 
plained by Newton, “ The investigation of the laws of 
nature which could not be deduced from direct observa- 
tion. ,, He congratulated the Governor- General on hav- 
ing been so fortunate as to combine an event of this 
kind with the brilliant administration he had given to 
Canada. (Applause.) He also congratulated the Chan- 
cellor and Board of Governors 011 the acquisition of the 
building and its equipment, and on the acquisition of 
two such men as Professors Bovey and Cox to originate 
and design them. 

Dr. Egglestone, of the School of Mines, Columbia, 
added his congratulations on what had already been 
achieved by the University. Pie was an engineer, and 
proud of his profession, which had won him many warm 
friends in Montreal. 

This closed the meeting in the Lecture Hall, and the 
visitors proceeded from apparatus room to laboratory, 
to lose themselves in unexpected corners, to wander up 
and down the oak staircases, and finally to gravitate to 
the refreshment room, attracted as much Dy the sound 
of many voices singing in admirable tune and time the 
Eton Boat Song or the Capital Ship as by the aroma of 
the afternoon tea and coffee, which were so grateful after 
long speaking and listening. At 6, the affair was over, 
the eight hundred people had departed, and silence 
reigned again in the splendid halls of the Physics 
Building. 

But the fete was not yet done. Scarcely had one don- 
ned his purple and fine linen and dined, than making 
his way up the avenue he found himself swelling the 
stream of humanity which flooded the front entrance 
of the Engineering Building. The Conversazione and 
reception of the Governor General began at 8, and after- 
wards from 10 till midnight the machinery was to be 
set in motion. Apparatus was to be on exhibition, mam- 
moth beams were to be bent, and steel bars snapped in 
twain like ropes of sand. At 8 if the doors had been 
closed a large gathering could have been reported. At 
9 one moved about at a snails pace. At 10 if he were 
wise he stayed where he happened to be— if in a corner 
so much the better— and watched the crowd that surged 
this way and that. Everybody of any note was there 



and some few others as well. One found out friends he 
had not seen for years, and was not surprised thereat * 
It was a most brilliant gathering and a most good-na- 
tured one as well, and as people greeted each other the 
usual commonplaces were forgotten and “ isn’t it lovely” 
or “jolly” or “splendid” took their place according 
to the degree of difficulty which had been experienced 
in ascending the stairs. 

From 9 to 10 the principal focus for the various lines 
of promenade was the large reception room on the 
third floor, where the Governor General, assisted by the 
members of the Faculty and ladies, received the guests. 
A secondary focus was the refreshment room, for one 
who was forced into admitting that he had been there 
eight times (just to look round) informed your reporter 
that at no period of the evening did a deserted state of 
that apartment indicate a lack of appreciation of its 
advantages, on the part of the ladies and gentlemen 
present. Along the halls and on the stairs were pla- 
cards bearing directions which it was not always pos- 
sible to follow, but which no doubt conduced greatly 
to uniform steady motion. To the student’s reception 
committee also credit is due for the vigorous manner in 
which they relieved the congested staircases and pas- 
sages and doorways. 




BUZZ PLANER. 



When the reception was over the Governor General’ >- 
party started on a tour of inspection of the building, 
and everybody followed. A youth fuMooking under- 
graduate officiously cleared the stairs, and that no false 
dignity might be attributed to him, gravely assured 
those around him that he himself had not the honor 
of representing Her Majesty in this Dominion but that 
His Excellency was on his way. 

So the Testing Laboratory was reached. There the 
Buckton monster was already harnessed to a tremen- 
dous pine beam, which soon yielded with groans to the 
stress of circumstances. The Emery was exhibited in 
tension and compression, and iron bars were twisted 
until they looked like sticks of candy. 

A great variety of apparatus was there shown, each 
piece with its card attached, making quite clear its uses 
—an array confusing to the laity, but convincing them 
that the boast as to the completeness of all the details 
about the place is no vain one. 

A book might be written containing the wise expla- 
nations, especially of the young ladies, concerning the 
uses of what they saw*. An innocent-looking micro- 
meter had certainly something to do with electricity, 
while dynamos were nothing but centrifugal pumps. 
One damsel explained how the electric fluid flowed 
through the copper tube to the Emery Scales, and 



I/O 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



another tried to impress on the mind of her friend the 
great importance of therms in the economy of nature. 

A young man (said to belong to the 3rd year) | 
undertook to test an oak pillar in the Emery machine 
for the edification of a large party of ladies. He 
inserted the pillar, opened the valve with a flourish 
when down came the ram, and in one second the oak 
was a shattered mass of splinters. A murmur of 
admiration went round as the youth aunounced 37,000 
pounds as the breaking weight with 47,000 as the limit 
of elasticity. That was indeed a test. 

Next to the foundry, where, in the presence of all, 
molten metal was poured apparent^ into the sand 
and came out a likeness of His Excellency. In the 
language of a Student who facetiously improvised a 
grand stand for ladies out of a plank, the ends of 
which were supported by himself and a bench, the 
cast was the principal feature of the evening, notwith- j 
standing the statement of one of our journals that a 
certain pine stick had already had that distinction. 

All the departments were in turn visited, and were 
kept running up to a late hour. And what an interest 
was taken in everything, from the ponderous and 
versatile engine in the Thermodynamic Laboratory to 
the exquisite little instrument, l< for measuring the one 
ten thousandth part of an inch.” 

It is unnecessary to go into detail, for even a partial 
catalogue would unduly occupy space, and, besides, 
the things which are within the walls of the McDonald 
Engineering Building — are they not written and 
minutely and accurately described (with illustrations) 
in the columns of our daily newspapers? 

At midnight the ” show ” was over, and the guests 
departed after many sorrows in the intricacies of the 
passages leading to the cloak rooms. 

The irrepressible undergraduates, however, remained, 
and beguiled the midnight hour with a last few songs, 
and then, their numbers sadly diminished, embarked in 
a cab and went home. 



RELIQULE ANTIQILE. 

It was a common custom in early times for owners 
of books to write in them metrical notes of their right 
to possess and keep them. The following are a few of 
such scraps. I may mention that the earliest printed 
book-plate known is inserted in the M. S. Claud, D. 
ATI., being that of Sir Henry Savile, the celebrated 
antiquary. 

From M. S. Ashm, 59 of the 15th century. 

“ Yee that desyre in herte and have pleasaunce 
Olde stories in book is for to rede, 

Gode matiers putt hem in remembraunce, 

Aud of the other take yee none hede ; 

By seeching yowe of your godely hede, 

Whane yee this boke have over-redde and seyne, 

To Johan Shirley restore yee it ageine.” 

From M. S. Harl., 1251, written by the Countess of 
Worcester about the year 1440. 

And I yt los, and you yt fynd, 

I pray yow hartely to be so kynd, 

That yow wel take a letel payne, 

To se my boke brothe home agayne, 



Thys boke is one, 

And Gods kors ys anoder; 

They that take the ton, 

God gefe them the tod'er. 

From M. S. Bib. Reg. 18. D. 15th century. 

“ He that stelys this booke 
Shal be hanged on a hooke. 

He that this booke stelle wolde, 

Sone be his herte colde. 

That it mow so be, 

Seith Amen for cherite.” 

“ Qui scripsit carmen, 

Pookefait est sibi nomen. 

Miller jungatur, 

Qui scripsit sic nominatur.” 

From M. S. Harl., 45 of the 15th century. 

“ If ony persone stele this boke. 

He shall be hongyd by a hoke, 

Or by the necke with a rope.” 

From M. S- temp. Hen. VII. 

“ This is the boke of William Tucke, 

Christ grante to hym yn erth good lucke ; 

Aud or he dye to send hym grace, 

In Hevyn so hye to purchase a place.” 

From M. S. in the public library of Cambridge, a 
breviary of the 15th century. 

“ Where from evyr thys boke be com, 

Yt ys Wylyam Barbors of New Bokeuham, 

Who-so-ever thys booke fynde, 

I pray hym have thys in hys mynde ; 

For hys love that dyed on hee, 

Save thys boke and bryng yt to me ! — 

Wylyam Barbor off newe Bokenham.” 

From M. S. Harl. of the time of Henry VIII. 

“ Thomas Beech is my name, 

And with my pen I write the same ; 

If my pen had been better, 

I would have meuded it everey lettere.” 

From a printed book formerly in the possession of 
John Flamstead, the celebrated astronomer. 

‘‘John Flamsteed his book, 

I11 it he doth ofteu look.” 

From a copy of Recorde’s “Groundeof Artes,” in 
the possession of Mr. Maynard. 

• Hie liber mihi pertiuet, 

Denie it who can ; 

Ad Jacobum Parsons, 

A verie honeste man, 

In Gravesend ia 
He is to be foutide, 

Si non moveatur, 

And laid in the grounde. 

1674. 

One other I quote from memory as having been used 
in my school days ; 

Hie liber est meus, 

Testis est Deus, 

Quis illud furetur, 

Per collutn pendetur. 

H. M. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



NOTES ON THE FRENCH REVOLUTION. 

So much has been written by authors of all national- 
ities and political creeds on the subject of French life 
during the Revolutionary period, and also of the curious 
train of circumstances and contributory causes leading 
up to that great and wonderful outburst of long pent up 
radical tendencies, that to attempt even in a very limited 
manner the task of a chronicler of events or a critic of 
the various motives that prompted the French roturicrs 
to this sudden assertion of their independence, and 
exhibition of their disgust with the then existing 
mode of government and legislation in France, is as un- 
necessary as it would be presumptuous. 

This period of French history has been so pecu- 
liarly distorted and misunderstood by many that it 
seems impossible even by a most careful study of the 
literature of the period, and also of the labors of the 
subsequent writers on this epoch, to form any very 
settled opinion on the subject, or any estimation of the 
various causes, either proximate or ulterior, that tended 
to bring about this subversion of all then existing 
authority and the subsequent so-called Reign of 
Terror. Nor is one further enlightened by adopting 
the ideas which at present seem to prevail in France 
on the subject; and in trying to reconcile these with 
one’s preconceived notions of this interesting period 
of French history, such a hopeless state of uncer- 
tainty and feeling of utter helplessness to master even 
the smallest details of the subject ensues, that even th£ 
most interested and careful student stands aghast at 
the immensity of a subject, which nevertheless con- 
tinues to fascinate him by its very strangeness and 
tinge of something like improbability. 

The French mind also, especially during the 
last ten years or morje, seems to have been under- 
going a gradual change in so far as their appreciation 
of the events of this epoch is concerned, and their 
present interpretation of the motives which actuated 
the men most prominent at that time in Revolutionary 
circles has become so entirely altered from what would 
appear to have been their original conceptions 
in this respect, that a foreigner is tempted to sus- 
pect a wholesale white-washing of the characters of 
the men whom we have learnt to consider as brigands, 
desperadoes and political adventurers ; and yet if we 
follow carefully the results of the recent researches of 
eminent French historians into the history of the time, 
the result of their labours reads as a fairy tale, and 
we find ourselves, even against the promptings of a 
preconceived notion, almost believing in the inte- 
grity and stanchness of purpose of a Dan ton, a Desmou- 
lins, and even a Robespierre. As an illustration of this 
tendency, the fact may be mentioned that the French 
Government have recently erected in 1 aris, on the 
Boulevard St. Germain, within a stone s thiow of the 
old Cordelier Club, the House of Charlotte Corday, and 
the Abbey prison, a massive bronze statue of “the 
National hero DantonJ' and the inscription it bears and 
the eclat with which it was erected, seems at least a 
strong endorsation of the growing sentiment before 
noted. Such appears to be the view taken in 
France at the present day of what we have learnt to 



171 



consider as one of the blackest spots of a chequered 
and eventful political history, and the end is not yet. 

It was my pleasure and my privilege when in Paris 
some time ago to listen to a most interesting and in- 
structive course of lectures in the Sorbonne, given by 
one of the most distinguished Professors of History 
connected with that famous institution. The subject 
of the course was “Robespierre and his associates.” 
The lectures were given in a dingy room in the old 
Sorbonne before a mixed assembly of both sexes, and 
as an evidence of the popularity of the lecturer and the 
fascination which the subject possessed for his hearers, 
the lecture hall was daily crowded to the doors. 

In this course the tendency noted was most clearly 
evidenced, and one listened with a peculiar species 
of astonishment and awe, as all the old ideas on the 
subject were first skilfully dealt with and then shattered 
by the clear exposition and telling sentences of the 
famous lecturer. 

Robespierre was not the scoundrel and unprincipled 
firebrand the world seems to have considered him to be, 
but rather was he a man actuated by motives tending 
solely to the welfare of his country and the benefit of 
his compatriots. It seemed strange and yet it seemed 
true ; theories were supported by most substantial 
facts marshalled under the skilful hand of the illus- 
trious professor. It is not, however, my intention to 
enter into any discussion of theories or of the different 
views of the subject taken by historians, but rather to 
present to the readers of the Fortnightly a few 
extracts, which it was my good fortune to be able to 
make, from a series of Parisian newspapers published 
in Paris during the period with which we are dealing, 
and which must be considered to a very large extent 
as indications of the condition of the public mind ? 
and true accounts of public action during the years 
when the power of revolutionary instincts and princi- 
ples had unrestricted sway. 

This collection of Parisian newspapers, published 
under the ( name of the Journal dc Paris National , has 
been carefully preserved, and may be found by anyone 
interested in the great Bibliothequc Nationale de Paris , 
and may be there consulted at his leisure. 

The entry to the library as a reader is gained by 
obtaining from the management a ticket of admission 
which entitles the owner to all the privileges of the 
library for the period of one year, and which may be 
renewed indefinitely by a simple application. 

The management, however, require before granting 
this permission the recommendation of a recognized and 
responsible person, and a statement of the purposes for 
which you desire admission. The passes are strictly 
personal and non-transferable, and must be signed by 
the person to whom they are granted. 

Armed with this talisman, you are permitted to enter 
the precincts of one of the largest and perhaps greatest 
of libraries in the world. The reading room or room 
for study is situated on the ground floor, and is in the 
shape of an enormous rotunda. The desks are ranged 
in long lines, and each seat bears a number, which 
henceforth becomes your own so long as you occupy 
the same. On taking your seat you are provided by 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



172 



11 attendant with two squares of printed paper, — one 
white and one green. 

On the green slip you enter the titles of the books 
you wish to consult, the names of the authors, the date 
of publication (in case a certain edition is required"), 
and the name and residence of the person desiring to 
make use of the works. This is handed in to one of 
the librarians with the white slip, which they retain 
until such time as you are ready to leave the library, 
and after carefully comparing the books you return 
with their own entries 011 the white slip, you are at 
liberty to leave the hall, first obtaining a laisscr-fiasser 
for any parcel you may have in your possession after a 
careful scrutiny of the same by an agent of the powers 
that be. Such are the necessary formalities tobe com- 
plied with ; and after making my request I found myself 
in possession of four large volumes of Le Journal de 
Paris A T ational, and plunged with all the curiosity of a 
foreigner into the intricacies of this, the best of histories 
covering the period of 1789-95. 

Of the many pages perused in the course of my visits 
to this quiet retreat, situated on the Rue de Richelieu, 

I regret to say that but a few written extracts have 
been retained. The notes taken were hurriedly jotted 
down on the backs of requisition forms, envelopes and 
old theatre programmes, but their accuracy and authen- 
ticity can be vouched for. No attempt at any special 
arrangement as to dates or the succession of events 
was made, and they can only be given in the order in 
which they are now preserved, with a slight rearrange- 
ment to suit the requirements of a literary article. 

Records of the period immediately preceding this 
epoch would, ifconsulted, also tell a curious tale. They 
consist of imposing financial budgets and accounts of 
arbitrary edicts of taxation. The names of Caloune, 
Vergennes and Necker dot the pages, associated with 
the constitutional measures of the States General and 
the Assembly of Notables. 

Then follow short accounts of the removal of the 
King to Paris, the sittings of the Constituent Assem- 
bly, the attempted flight of the Royal family, and the 
formation of the famous clubs, — the Girondists, Jacobins 
and Cordeliers. 

Of this period as of the first three years of the Revo- 
lution I have unfortunately no record, and for the pur- 
poses of this article, 1 793 must be made a starting point. 

The first extract is simply a specimen page of one of 
the numbersof the Journal, and has no special reference 
to anything of striking historical importance. It 
reads : — 

Journal de Paris National. 

Du 4me jour du 2me mois de Pan 2de la R£publique Fran$aise, une 
et indivisible. 

(Le vendredi, 25 octobre 1793, vieux style.) 

Convention Nationale. 

Presidence de Moyse, Bayle, Stance du 3, 2me mois. 

La convention a instruite par les P6titionnaires de Lille et de 
ThionviUe, que ces deux forteresses sont purges de ce qu’elles con- 
tenaient de royalistes, de malveillants, d’aristocrates et de mod^res, 
et que Pesprit qui y r&gne et Petat des subsistances donnent la certi- 
tude que jamais les despots pourront p£n£trer dans ces deux boule- 
vards de la Republique. 



In this we find nothing of special interest outside of 
the fact that it is a perfect indication of the prevailing 
sentiments of that period with regard to the aristocracy 
and nobility of the country ; and Lc Journal de Pai is f be 
it understood, was not the organ of any special class or 
order of politicians, but may be considered as the mirror 
of general opinion and sentiment. Further on in the 

same number we find : — 

Tribunaux. 

Tribunal criminel extraordinaire. 

Jean Baptiste Brul<§, ag<§ de 32 ans, natif d’Envers, District de 
Chateaudon. pretre, ci-devant cur£ de la Paroisse St. Laurent de la 
ville de Nogent-le-Rolion, demeurant Paris environ 2 mois, convaincu 
de propos contre-r£volutionnaires, et tendant au r^tablissement de la 
Royaute, a £t£ condamn£ a la peine de mort, et a subi son jugement. 
Buffot et vingt autres d6put£s ont occup<§ hier le fauteuil et les strades 
fatales. 

La Stance a suspendue & 5 heures du soir, et sera continue 
aujourd’hui 

A simple extract, and yet so full of a deeper meaning, 
and one repeated unfortunately on almost every page, 
with but a change of name and date. The words 
Jauteitil and les strades fatales had a grim significance in 
these troublous times, and many victims were yet to be 
found, for we find at the end of the list the words : — 

Etat des prisons : — total general des prisons 3042, dont 162 au 
Luxembourg. 

Le Tribunal criminel extraordinaire le 23 du 12 Mars Pan 2 de la 
R6p., ou le Lundi, 14 octobre (vieux style). 

presents to us a more noble and notable victim. 

Previous to the event about to be recorded, another 
act of revolutionary madness had been performed. A re- 
solution had been presented to the Convention by Robes- 
pierre, and carried ‘ to summon Louis Capet to the bar to 
answer for his crimes ’ ! On the 26th December, the un- 
fortunate monarch was carried Jto his trial. M. Deseze, 
an eloquent pleader, who was engaged for the defence, 
acquitted himself admirably, but elicited no sympathetic 
response from the auditory. The verdict was given, 
the sentence executed, and now the French king’s 
noble wife was to follow in her unfortunate husband’s 
foot steps. 

Poor Marie, the farce had been played out. The 
sans-culottcs had thirsted too long for a noble victim, 
and the old tricoteuses who daily infested the Place de 
la Revolution (formerly Place Louis XV, and now 
Place de la Concorde) stopped their gossio for a 
moment as the fair woman, once their queen, trod with 
faltering step the path to the fatal guillotine. The 
wretched scene over, the fournal reported the event as 
follows : — 

Marie Antoinette, veuve Capet, a ete traduite au Tribunal R^volu- 
tionnaire d 9 heures du matin. Ses interrogatoires et l’audition des 
tdmoins ont eu lieu le lundi et le mardi toute la jrurnde. 

Le mercredi a 4 heures du matin, par jugement du Tribunal Cri- 
minel Rdvolutionnaire, elle a etfi condamnde a la peine de mort. La 
jugement a 616 execute le meme jour & midi sur la Place de la Revolu- 
lion. 

Void l’acte entier d’accusation tel qu’il lui a dtd lu a la premiere 
audience 

It was sufficient in the eyes of her judges and 
Lorraine D’Autriche, veuve de Louis Capet, & died, a 
victim of circumstances, at the capital of her adopted 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



173 



country, the country to which she came twenty-four 
years before as the accepted bride of the young king 
Louis XVI. 

Marie Antoinette had always occupied a peculiarly 
trying position as the wife of the King of France. Her 
husband was humane in disposition and of unimpeach- 
able morals; but, deficient in self reliance and force of 
will, as well as practically unskilled in public policy, 
he was unfitted to encounter or control the revolution 
that afterwards burst on the country. Marie herself, 
although she did all in her power to merit popular 
favor, experienced a general dislike. There was a 
general hatred of Austria, of which she came in for a 
share. As Dauphin and Dauphiness of France, they 
had occupied apartments in the spacious palace of Ver- 
sailles, and there filled a position of secondary impor- 
tance to their dissolute father Louis XV, that must 
have been most trying to the refined sensibilities of the 
Austrian princess. 

Coming to the volume containing the records of the 
year 1794, we find another turn of the wheel has taken 
place. Desmoulins and Danton have fallen from power. 
The idols of the people have betrayed the public 
interest, and the various items of their different in- 
famies follow in a long list. To quote Le Journal : — 
Tribunal Revolutionnaire. 

Du 13 Germinal. 

Salle de^la Liberty. 

B. Camille des Moulins, age de 33 ans, natif de St. Quinez, Departe 
ment de l’Aveyron, ex capucin , depute a la Convention, Rue du 
Theatre Frangais. 

G. J. Danton, age de 34 ans, natif d’Arcy sur-Ault, ci-devant 
avocat, depute a la Convention, Rue de Marat. accuses de com- 

plicity avec D’Oriyans, Dumourier et autres enemis dela rypublique, 
a d’avoir trempy dans la conspiration tendant a retablir la monarchic, 
detruire la Reprysentation Nationale, le Gouvernement Rypublicain, 
etc., etc., ont paru aujourd’hui au Tribunal. 

A turn of the page to the 16 Germinal, — Sunday, 
April 6th, 1794, and we have an account of the trial. 
Tribunal Revolutionnaire. 

Au commencement de la seance, le Prysident donne lecture du 
Dycret de la Convention Nationale, qui lui ordonne, apres trois jours 
de dybats dans Pinstruction d’une procydure, de demander aux jurys 
s’ils sont sufiisamment instruits sur cette affaire. 

Les jurys declarent qu’ils vont se retirer dans leur Chambre pour 
en dylibyrer. Westeman, Danton, etc., demandent la parole. Ils 
insistent, ils crient, ils font du bruit. 

Le Prysident ordonne de faire retirer les accusys, ce qui est executy. 
Quelque temps aprys, les jurys rentrent, et declarent qu’ils sont suffi- 
samment instruits. 

L’accusation publique rappelle 1 audace que ces accusys ont mon- 
tree, les indycences qu’ils ont commises, les outrages qu’ils ont faits a la 
justice nationale, les ironies, les menaces memes qu’ils se sont perinis 
pendant tout le couis des dybats, les protestations qu’iis ont faites. 
II cite le dycret rendu hier concernant ces accusys ; il requiert que les 
questions soient posyes ct 1 instant, et qu’aprys la Declaration du juri, il 
soit procydy au jugement, sans appeler aucun des accuses. Le Tri- 
bunal fait droit au ryquisitoire de l accusation publique. 

Lacroix, Danton , Caftulle Des Moulins , Philippeaux, Hyiault 
Sychelles, /. F. Westerman , ex-genyral de Brigade, convaincus d’etre 
auteurs ou complices d’une conspiration qui a existy, tendant a 
retablir la monarchic, a dytruire la Representation et le Gouvernement 
Rypublicain, ont etc conda 77 tnes a la peine de mort. 

• One notable thing in connection with these two men 
—Danton and Des Moulins— is the fact that they attain- 



ed the position they did at so early an age. One was only 
33, while the other had but attained the age of 34 ; but 
the times were indeed troublous, and Danton, the 
blustering demagogue, and Des Moulins, the ex-priest, 
were the men to seize on the opportunity given by the 
peculiarity of the existing state of circumstances, and 
to turn public fear and the uncer tainty of public affairs 
to their own proper advantage. Two other extracts 
alone remain to be added to this series of quotation 
and comment. They have been intentionally reserved 
till the last, as being rather interesting curiosities than 
historical records, and yet their import is one not to be 
un noticed, and if they only .serve as indications of 
popular sentiment and feeling they have their value. 

The first is taken from a newspaper extract of the 
proceedings of the Commune. It runs as follows : — 

Un membre observe que le sens de l’inscription latine de ce cadeau 
dont l’aiguille ne tournait plus depuis environ 200 ans, ytait : — “ La 
justice se rend ici corntne Vhorloge vaD 

Chaumette dynonce ensuite le marbre noir placy au frontispiece de 
la maison Commune, et sur laquelle P. M....a fait graver de beaux 
vers tirys d’une Tragydie de Voltaire — “ qui , s*il vivaitj ’ dit-il, 

<c fer ait un aristocrate” ; sur sa requisition, la Conseil ordonne qu’ils 
seront effacys, qu’il leur fera substituer line inscription plus simple, 
telle que la suivante : — “ Ici ont commency toutes les revolutions, 
celles de 1789.. .etc.; le 10 aout le trone a ecrasy par les Sans - 
Culottes. 

The second also deals with legislative enactments, 
and is on a par with the many other arbitrary measures 
passed at the time : — 

Mardi, 22 octobre 1793 (vieux style). 

Commune de Paris. 

Du 29me jour, premier mois, sur une Denonciation que certains 
marchands ryfusent d’ouvrir leurs boutiques les jours ci-devant appeles 
Dimanches , le Conseil arrete qu’il sera dcfendu aux marchands de 
fermer leurs boutiques le Dimanche, sous peine d’etre regardys comme 
suspects et poursuivis comme tels ; declare nyanmoins qu’il leur est 
libre de tenir leurs boutiques ouvertes ou femes les jours de decades . 

If the positive declaration of the law in the first part 
of the extract be compared with the option in the latter 
part, the enactment will lose nothing of its ludicrous- 
ness. 

And here an end must be made to an article which 
really consists, and only professes to consist, of a series 
of newspaper clippings, for which no other purpose 
was imagined at the time of their compilation but to 
amuse and to satisfy a personal curiosity. They read 
as would read a nineteenth century account of legisla- 
tive enactments and events that possess the sole recom- 
mendation of being the record of popular movement, 
and yet they have served as one of the great treasure- 
houses of information regarding an epoch which has 
perhaps had as great an effect on the growth of Consti- 
tutional and Democratic measures as any other in the 
history of the world. 

The influence of the French Revolution on English 
thought and action alone was most marked during the 
immediately succeeding’years that followed this great 
event, and the paucity of reform legislation during the 
first quarter of the nineteenth century in England must, 
in a large measure, be attributed to the natural revul- 
sion of feeling which set in all over the civilized world, 



174 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



and to the fear, engendered by the events of 1789-94, 
that too radical measures of Parliamentary reform 
might lead to a repetition in England of the unre- 
strained outburst of ill-directed democratic spirit that 
had unfortunately taken place in the country of their 
less favored neighbor. 

What may be the fate ofFrance amid the contentions 
and intrigues of Legitimists, Orleanists, Bonapartists 
and Republicans of various kinds it is hard" to say, and 
the recent governmental misunderstandings which 
resulted from the Panama investigations hardly indi- 
cate the stability one would have expected from a 
country which has had the advantage of a settled con- 
stitution for the last twenty-five years. 

g.w.m. 



A LOVE TAIL. 

A pretty made went out won Dey, 

— ’Twas in the summer thyme, — 

Butt at a style maid paws to say : 

“ Ah, know ! I caunot clime !” 

“ Then in a would suppose we wrest,” 

Sew eye maid haste to say — 

And wen thee son is inn the west 
Wheet take hour homeward weigh. 

Her cheek was read, her smile was suite, 

Soft shown her i’s of olew — 

And threw the grass her dainty feat 
Seamed just as if they flue. 

Then boulder groan, my love I tolled ; 

I offered hart and hand, 

And withe eh wring off purest goaled 
I ceiled Love’s mystic banned. 

Selected. 



LIBRARY NOTES. 

At the risk of their being regarded as “ jerks of in- 
vention,” I set down a few more Library Whims and 
Oddities, the majority of them having come under my 
personal experience. I call to mind an enquiry for 
‘‘Leather Stocking Tales.” “There are several of 
them in separate volumes, which one would you like ?” 
and the reply was, “ Well ! I guess I’ll take ‘ Old 
Morality’.” 

Being asked for “The Misery of Paris ” and “an 
edition of Scott’s novels in the original dialect,” are 
queries enough to shake the nerves of any librarian, 
whilst the statement that B.C. stands for “ Before Crea- 
ion,” and A.D. represents “ After the Deluge,” may 
perhaps be regarded as capping the climax. 

The Yale Record gives the following conversation of 
two students on the steps of the Library. “ Say ! 
what book have you got ?” “ Why, I’ve just got a new 
book written about our class, called ‘ Ninety-Three,’ 
by a fellow named Hugo.” 

Have you got “ Nux Vomica ?” was a puzzle, until 
after some consideration it was ascertained that Pro- 
fessor Drummond’s “ Pax Vobiscum ” was intended. 

Indeed the mere mistakes in the name of a book 
asked for might be multiplied to a great length. 7,et me 
give a few at random : — 



“Aristocrat of the Breakfast Table. 

“ Cluster on the Hearth ” 

“ Alsop’s Fables.’ ’ 

“Sacred Letter” by Hawthorne, 
and, I doubt whether Elizabeth Stuart Phelps would be 
able to recognize her “ Gates Ajar ” when enquired for 
as “ Gates Cigar.” 

Regarding these pleasantries from another point of 
view we have a record of a lady visiting a library and 
asking “ Have you the Letters of Jane Welsh Carlyle, 
and being met with this reply “ No, Madam, you 
should go to the Post Office for letters.” 

The following is said to have occurred in a library 
not 100 miles from New York : Reader to atten- 

dant— “ Have you the 1 Autocrat of the Breakfast 
Table ’ ” Attendant — “ I think so ! I am not quite 
sure. Is it a cook-book ? ” 

Some other time I may gossip about mistakes in 
catalogues leading to ludicrous results. 

H.M. 



THE JOKES I HAVE FORGOT. 

I always try to tell my jokes 
As smartly as I can, 

And people always laugh, because 
I am a funny man. 

’Tis not they sometimes miss the point, 

Ah, no, that grieves me not — 

’Tis when I come to think upon 
The jokes I have forgot. 

I told a story at dessert ; 

I knew ’twas nothing great. 

But felt there was some clever point 
They would appreciate. 

Three crammed their napkins in their mouths, 
Four choked on pudding hot — 

Whereas, I’d only tried to spring 
A joke I had forgot. 

I met a friend on Sherbrooke street, 

Last evening, going west, 

I twitched my mouth, I winked my eye, 

I smote upon his vest. 

My friend in wild expectancy 
Stood rooted to the spot, 

And laughed like thunder when I groaned, 
“The joke I have forgot.” 

I oft make humorous remarks 
To those I chance to meet, 

And burst on reading them in print, 

Or tumble in the street, 

And help let fall the honor to 
Some base impostor’s lot, 

Nor ever recognize them mine , — 

The jokes I have forgot. 

Oft too in musing solitude 
I grasp some beam sublime, 

Outdazzling all the spheres of thought 
And all the stores of time ; 

Then lose that master-brand of wit, 

By stroke of genius wrought — 

And think of all the others lost, 

The jokes I have forgot. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



175 



And oft some lightning-flash of fun 
Electrifies my head ; 

I drop convulsed upon the floor, 

Or roll upon my bed ; 

Then find I laughed so hugely at 
I don’t remember what, 

And grow quite sad in thinking on 
The jokes I have forgot. 

But when I m old they’ll come again, 

Iu youthful freshness drest, 

When life’s frail finger rubs the past 
From memory’s palimpsest. 

And then I’ll make a monstrous book 
As funny as I ought, 

And on the title-page I’ll put, 

The Jokes I had Forgot. 

Cap’n. Goun. 



A RHYME FOR ORANGE. 

Referring to an item in the Star of Saturday last, reciting 
some odd rhymes, one on the word “ Orange ” is given. I re- 
member that a few years back, in the editor’s room of the Her- 
ald, a few of us were having a “ wit combat,” and this subject 
of rhymes turned up, aud amongst others the word “ Orange !i 
was suggested ; as a random shot, I fired off the 'following, which 
is at least as good as the one given iu the Star 

“ You ask me for a rhyme to orange. 

And in the challenge think you run no risk ; 

You surely overlook Lieutenant Gorringe,* 

The hero of New York’s famed obelisk.” 

This play at rhyming is not new, and amongst the rhymesters 
Barham (Ingoldsby) and Hood may be reckoned foremost ; it is 
a favorite game with newspaper men. I remember Richard 
Cobden, the apostle of free trade, saying that no one had been 
successful in producing a rhyme to his name. 

H. M- 



A VISIT TO RADNOR FORGES. 

A very enjoyable excursion was given on Saturday, 
February 25th, by the Canada Iron Furnace Co. , Ltd. 
to the members of the International Mining Convention, 
in which several members of the McGill Mining Society 
had the good fortune to participate. 

A special train left the Dalhousie Sq. Station at 7.50 
a.m. and reached Radnor Forges at noon. Two of the 
Canadian Pacific commissariat cars formed part of the 
train, and a large staff of waiters looked after the com- 
fort of the guests, who numbered about two hundred. 

On arriving, the forges were at once visited, the most 
interesting point being to watch the flow of the liquid 
iron from the furnace. The ore used is bog-ore which 
is brought in from all the surrounding country, and 
about 40 tons of charcoal pig-iron is produced per day. 
The chemist employed here is P. H. Le Rossignol, 
B. App. Sc. ’92, and the McGill men present !were 
pleased to hear his employers speak in high terms of the 
efficient and satisfactory manner in which his branch 
of work was being performed. 

After a few short speeches in the new English 
Church, the train proceeded to Grandes Piles, 15 miles 

* Lieutenant Gorringe, not long before, had been successful 
in transporting the obelisk from Egypt, which is now’ erected in 
Central Park, New York. 



further north on the river St. Maurice, where large 
country sleighs were supplied by the hosts and on 
which a lively ride was taken into the hills, which are 
here very picturesque, even in winter. The writer was 
one of a sleigh load which was upset into a charcoal- 
sprinkled snowdrift, and for a few minutes the beauties 
of the scenery were forgotten. 

The party returned to Montreal at 10.00 p.m., having 
spent a very pleasant day, and the Directors of the 
Canada Iron Furnace Co. are to be complimented on 
the manner in which all the arrangements were carried 
out. 

A. A. C. 



The Gondoliers. 

Ou Wednesday, February 22, another of those evenings 
fraught with so much pleasure both to students and Montreal 
theatre goers was spent at the Academy of Music. 

It was announced in the papers of the previous day that 
McGill was to be present en masse , and this had the usual effect 
of filling the house from floor to ceiling. Unfortunately, the 
attendance on the part of the students was limited to about one 
hundred men of Science, with a scattering of Artsmen — the 
Meds. being unable to attend owing to the proximity of their 
exams. We venture to say, however, that all who were drawn 
to the Academy by the expectation of hearing the songs of Old 
McGill flowing from a chorus of five hundred voices were fully 
satisfied by the substitution of the glees by the Ap. Sc. Banjo 
Club. 

As on former nights the start was made at the College gates, 
but owing to the comparatively small number present, the line 
of march was direct to the Academy where the main entrance 
was thrown open, and the walls of the theatre soon resounded 
with the query and answer regarding McGill’s constitutional 
condition, and the Rah, Ree, Rye of Science. 

The half hour before the commencement of the performance 
was spent in the usual happy style, entertaining the audience 
with our old favorites, and just before the curtain arose by the 
rendering of “ We Meet Again ” by the Ap. Sc. Glee Club, lead 
by Mr. A. F. Ramsay. The latter w r as received as it deserved — 
with the heartiest of applause. 

The Opera itself was a decided success. All the soloists sang 
in a manner shewing the most scrupulous care in their training, 
—as w&s to be expected with Prof. Couture conducting. But 
what was indeed a surprise, they looked and acted their parts 
in a way professionals might imitate. No trace of nervousness 
or stage fright was visible in any of the performers, and this 
absence was particularly noticeable in the members of the 
chorus, who appeared quite at ease, and moved about with a 
grace foreign to the chorus singers in most amateur productions. 
Each one performed his or her part in such a satisfactory 
manner that we cannot particularize ; but Miss Walker’s render- 
ing of ‘‘A Woman’s Heart” was received with even more 
enthusiasm than is usual on these occasions, and she was made 
the recipient of a beautiful basket of flowers. In the course of 
the evening Miss Moylan, who had quite won the hearts of the 
Students by her spirited acting and fascinating manner — not less 
than by her charming singing — was also presented with a token 
of appreciation in the form of a basket of flowers. Miss Hollins- 
head, as Casilda, sang and acted with exquisite taste, while 
Miss Herbert, in the rather difficult roleof Inez, was all that 
could be desired — the recitative passage being particularly w'ell 
handled. With regard to the gentlemen, little need be said, as 
they one and all gave the greatest of satisfaction, and fully 
upheld their reputations of being among Montreal’s finest vocal- 
ists, and also proved that they were deserving of great praise 
as amateur actors. Mr. F. W. Cane in the role of the Grand 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



1 76 



Inquisitor fairly brought down the house by his really clever 
interpretation of his lines. 

Altogether the Montreal Am. Op. Club merit nothing but 
praise, and we hope that when next they appear in public the 
time will be more auspicious, so that McGill may evince her 
appreciation by a full attendance. 



SPORTING COLUMN. 

THE MCGILL UNIVERSITY ASSOCIATION. 

The annual meeting of the McGill University Athle- 
tic Association was held on Saturday evening in the 
College buildings. The President, A. S. Cleaves, occu- 
pied the chair. The business to be transacted was to 
receive the annual reports and the election of officers 
for next season. The Secretary, J. Alex. Cameron, 
presented his report, which showed, amongst other 
things, that the Association, which is in a most flourish- 
ing condition, has a membership of 310, of which num- 
ber 280 are undergraduates of the University. Last 
year’s field day was a most successful one in every par- 
ticular. Six college records were broken and the mem- 
bership greatly increased. The total receipts last year 
amounted to $796, the expenditure was $725, leaving a 
credit balance of $71. Mr. J. Mackie, of the Cricket 
club, asked for financial aid from the Association to 
enable the cricket club to put the grounds in first class 
condition. The feeling of the meeting was that as the 
governors assumed full control of the grounds, they 
should keep them in condition and not expect the 
Athletic Association to expend money, which should go 
for purely athletic sports, on levelling ground, etc. The 
executive will bring the matter to the attention of the 
University authorities. 

The C. A. A. A. having asked the McGill U.A.A. to 
become members of that body, it was decided not to 
join, as it meant the throwing open of two events each 
year to all amateurs. The meeting favored the forma- 
tion of an intercollegiate athletic union, by which cer- 
tain events will be open to all Canadian university 
undergraduates at every field day of the colleges join- 
ing the union. The election of officers resulted as 
follows : — Hon. president, Sir William Dawson ; presi- 
dent, G. H. Mathewson 3 vice-president, W. Donahue ; 
secretary, J. C. Hickson ; hon. treasurer, Prof. Moyse ; 
treasurer, H. C. Baker. The committee will be elected 
by the different faculties. 



SHERBROOKE DEFEATS MCGILL* 

Probably the greatest hockey match ever played in 
Sherbrooke took place on Saturday evening, February 
18th, between the McGill and Sherbrooke teams, in the 
Intermediate series. It was anybody’s game until the 
call of time. The game lasted for over one and three- 
quarter hours, several accidents occurring, which caused 
considerable delay. Smith, of McGill, came in for most 
of these. At the start he tripped and fell on his head, 
receiving a bad cut, but was soon out again. Abbott 
was the next unfortunate, getting a nasty skate cut on 
the thumb, and Smyth again came to grief by collid- 
ing with a side post. He had to be carried off this time. 



but after a few minutes pluckily insisted on resuming 
play. 

Five minutes fro tn the start McDougall scored the 
first game for Sherbrooke. The second and third games 
were won by McGill after some hard and fast play- 
The home team equalized matters by scoring the fourth 
game by a brilliant run of McFarlane’s. 

After halftime McGill captured the fifth game, soon 
after taking the sixth and seventh. Things began to 
look blue for Sherbrooke with a score of 5 to 2 against 
them, and only six minutes left for play. Sherbrooke 
scored the eighth game, taking the ninth also about 
two minutes later. The score now stood 5 to 4 in favor 
of McGill, with a minute and a quarter left for play. 
Out of a scrimmage, Cross came with the puck, dodged 
two McGill men, and shot from the side ; umpire 
Loomis’ hand went up, showing that Sherbrooke had 
tied the score. Such applause was never before heard 
in the rink, and lasted for fully five minutes. Both cap- 
tains agreed to play off the tie. McGill was put on the 
defensive and the Sherbrooke forwards played better 
than ever. Once or twice their goal was threatened, 
but the cool play of O’Dell saved his team from defeat. 
McGill shot and shot without avail, their last chance 
was gone. McFarlane relieved, and the home team 
made matters interesting for a few minutes until Abbott 
brought the puck out from behind the McGill goal and 
lifted it over the goalkeeper’s stick, thus winning the 
match. The teams were: 

McGill. Sherbrooke. 



Lewis 

Bickerdike . 

Dawes 

Ogilvy 

Archibald . 

Smith 

Massey. ... . 
H. L. Jones 
Kemp 



....... Goal . . . . 

Point . . . 

. ... Cover point 

1 f • 

1 

\- Forward. ■{ * 



Umpire 

Timekeeper 

E. Winn Farwell, referee. 



. .;.... O’Dell 
. . McFarlan 

Buck 

Lloyd 

Cross 

.. .McDougall 

Abbott 

W. E. Loomis 
Morkill 



Lewis was the McGill star, and Smyth and Massey 
each played a fine game. Cross for Sherbrooke played 
the game of his life. Abbott, Lloyd and McDougall 
were in great form, and McFarlane at a point was as 
reliable as ever. Buck at cover was a little light, but 
showed up well, while O’Dell stopped many a hot shot. 
After the match both teams were entertained at supper 
by the honorary president of the Sherbrooke club, R. 
W. Heneker, Fsq., at his residence. 



FOOTBALL AS THE GIRLS SEE IT. 

» 

I took the gentle Annabel 
To see a football game, 

And thus unto a friend of hers 
Did she describe the same : 

O, May, you should have seen them play, 
’Twas such a lovely sight ! 

And though the first game I had seen 
I understood it quite. 

“ First came McGill, all dressed in white 
Then Varsity in blue, 

One fellow yelled, the rest all tried 
To jump upon him too. 



McGill fortnightly. 



1 77 



“ A »d then one fellow stopped and stooped, 
And all the rest got round ; 

And every fellow stopped and stooped 
And looked hard on the ground . 

" And then auother fellow yelled, 

And each man, where he stood, 

Just hit and struck and knocked and kicked 
At every one he could. 

“ And then one fell upon his neck, 

And all the others ran, 

And on his prone aud prostrate form 
Leaped every blessed man. 

“ And then the ambulance drove on, 

Aud loading up with men 

With twisted necks and broken lungs, 

Went driving off again. 

“ Oh, football is just the cutest game, 

It cannot be surpassed ; 

But yet it really is a shame 
To use up men so fast”. 



SOCIETIES. 



Young Men’s Christian Association. 

The HandBook Committee are already planning 
“ the best yet.” The manuscript is well in hand, and the 
Hand Book will be issued early, and sent to all prospec- 
tive students during the summer. 

The following subjects will be discussed on Sunday 
Afternoons : 

March 5th, “ Have I made safe investments?” Matt. 
6: 21. 

Leader, Arch. Me Vicar, Arts ’93. 

March 12th, “ We have heard Him ourselves.” Jno. 
4 : 39-4 2 ; Jno. 5 : 24. 

Leader R. O. Ross, B.A., Med. ’96. 

March 19, “ Secret of success.” Josh. 1 : 6-9. 

Leader J. W. Bailey, B A., Med- ’95. 

The Leader is limited to one 10 minute address, and 
we want 10 men to give 1 minute addresses at each 
meeting. Will you make one ? 

Men seek position. The Christian man must seek 
fitness for position. 

Young Woman’s Christian Association. 

The Theo Dora meeting of Feb. 16th was an ex- 
tremely interesting one. 

The subject, “ The Reflex Influence of Missions,” 
was chosen, and three essays were presented. One by 
Miss Derick, considering the subject in its relation to 
Science; the second by Miss Fairclough, upon ‘‘The 
Influence of Missions on the Home Church;” and the 
last by Miss Seymour, “ The Influence of Missions 
on Colleges.” 

Before the meeting closed, a brief account was given 
by Miss Shaw, of the Canadian College’s Mission and 
its station in Korea^ for the benefit of those who were 
not present when this work was spoken of before. It 
is to be regretted that a larger number of members did 
not attend this meeting, which was certainly one of 
great interest. 



Delta Sigma Society. 

The regular meeting of the Delta Sigma Society was 
held on the 23rd instant. The programme ol the hour 
was a debate on the subject, “ Resolved, that the ex- 
ecution of Charles I of England was justifiable.” 

The speakers on the Affirmative were Misses Savage 
and Botterell, and on the Negative, Misses Travis and 
Denoon. The vote resulted in favor of the Negative. 
Miss Seymour acted as critic. 

After some general discussion of the question of the 
debate, the meeting adjourned. 

Montreal Veterinary Medical Association. 

Regular fortnightly meeting of the above Society was 
held in the lecture room, No. 6 Union Avenue, Thurs- 
day evening, Feb. 23rd. 

The Honorary President, Dr. D. McEachran, in the 
chair. The meeting was an unusually instructive one. 
Letters of apology were read from absent members, and 
other important business transacted. A communica- 
tion from a former member, Dr. Rowat of San Francisco, 
was read by the Secretary. He reports a case of canine 
tuberculosis. As this is comparatively rarely seen, it 
called up a hearty discussion. Mr. McGuire reported a 
case of navicular disease that had, after several unsuc- 
cessful attempts at cure by another, soon given in to 
his treatment. Mr. Stephens read a paper on “ The 
Breeding of the Draught Horse.” The essayist, speak- 
ing from experience, drew the attention of the members 
to the fact that this branch of industry, if properly de- 
veloped, would be the source of much profit to the for- 
mer. He briefly alluded to the superiority of the draught 
horse for farming and draying purposes. This paper 
called up an animated discussion. The Hon. President 
spoke of the methods employed on the ranches in rear- 
ing draught animals. Some of the members held that 
for farm purposes the heavy draught animal was at times 
unsuitable. Mr. Thayer followed with a paper on 
“ Azoturia.” His paper had the merit of being short 
and to the point. The entire ground covered by the sub- 
ject was dealt with, and no part was overlooked. It was 
the opinion of the essayist that until we know the true 
pathological nature of the disease, which at present is 
unsatisfactory, scientific (rational) treatment is out of 
the question. In the discussion that followed, Dr. 
Baker stated that as nervous phenomena abound in the 
symptoms, why not explain its nature on the assump- 
tion that some toxine product, the outcome of the hyper- 
nitrogenous condition of the system, was carried by the 
blood, and affected the motor centers, causing an abnor- 
mal discharge of the same, producing the muscular 
conditions. 

MCGILL MEDICAL SOCIETY. 

A special meeting of the Society was held in the 
large lecture theatre of the College, on Saturday 
evening, Feb. 25th, President T. A. Dewar in the chair. 
The subject of the evening was a paper on the 
Chemistry of Immunity by Dr. Ruttan. 

Reference was made to the process of attenuation of 
a specific virus, and to practical applications that were 
being made in such cases as vaccine and tuberculin in 



i;8 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



small-pox and tuberculosis. At the close all joined 
in a hearty vote of thanks to Dr. Ruttan. 

This was the last meeting of the Society for this 
session, and it is understood that the Society is to 
receive larger and more elaborate rooms in the near 
future. 

MCGILL MINING SOCIETY. 

The regular fortnightly meeting of the Society took 
place on Thursday, February i6th,Mr. H. Herdt, ’93 11 in 
the chair.” A very instructive paper on Mica and Phos- 
phate was read by Captain Adams, who was for many 
years connected with the mining of these minerals. 
The paper was fully illustrated with hand specimens, 
and was particularly interesting where it dealt with the 
discussion as to whether Phosphate would act as a fer- 
tilizer simply by being mechanically ground to a very 
fine powder. Captain Adams was of the opinion that 
it would, having made many experiments and observa- 
tions which led him to this conclusion. 

At the close of the paper, a discussion on doubtful 
points ensued, but Captain Adams soon cleared up the 
difficulties. 

A hearty vote of thanks was then tendered him for 
his paper, and the meeting adjourned. 

SENIOR SOCIETY OF APPLIED SCIENCE. 

The regular meeting of this Society was held in the 
East Wing on Tuesday, the 21st inst. The President, 
Mr. L- Herdt, occupied the chair. After disposing of 
routine business, Mr. H. D. Herdt read a paper on the 

Sewers of Paris,” prepared from data obtained by an 
extended personal inspection of the Paris sewers while 
in Europe last summer. After tendering a vote of thanks 
to Mr. Herdt for his interesting paper, the meeting ad- 
journed. 

THE CLASSICAL CLUB. 

The project of a classical society, referred to in last 
number, has now taken definite shape. At a meeting 
held on Tuesday evening, 21st inst., a constitution was 
adopted and the following officers elected : — 

Hon. President Dr. Eaton. 

President A. Mahaffy, ’93 

Vice-President Davis, ’94 

Secretary A. Skeels, ’93 

Treasurer J. W. Hickson, ’93 

Executive Com i C - Mansur , ’93 

executive Lom j Bickerdike, ’94 

The organization will be styled “ the Classical Club 
of McGill University and the object of the Club, as 
set forth by the constitution, is to encourage the study 
of classical language, literature and art. The mem- 
bers will be classed as Honorary, Ordinary and 
Associate. 

Honorary members will consist of the classical 
professors, past members, and such graduates as shall 
be elected from time to time ; ordinary members shall 
be those elected from the Third and Fourth years of 
the Faculty of Arts ; while associate members shall be 
those elected from the First and Second years, the 
latter having all the rights of membership except that 



of voting and participating in the business affairs of 
the Club. 

All members must be elected, after being proposed at 
a previous meeting, by any member of the Club ; and 
as a special meeting will probably be held in a few days 
for the proposition of candidates, it is desired that 
those who wish to join should at once ask some member 
of the Club to have them proposed. 

The regular meetings— the first of which will in all 
probability be held early next month — will no doubt 
be very instructive and interesting. Lectures will be 
given and papers read on classical subjects ; and 
eminent scholars will be secured to read important 
Latin and Greek authors, for whom there is no room on 
the College curriculum. 

The Fortnightly wishes the young Club every 
success. 

FACULTY REPORTS. 

MEDICAL CLASS REPORTS. 

We learn that at the Science Conversazione last 
Friday evening, what might have been a sad accident 
nearly occurred, which would have resulted in a 
holiday and a new president for the Freshmen. It 
seems that the president of the year, while intently 
watching the mysterious movements of a tester, got 
struck in the mouth by a piece of steel. He is 
now quite well. 

Moral — Freshies ! Don’t run in where angels fear to 
tread. 

* * 

* 

Some of the easy-going Freshmen got a terrible scare 
on Saturday last, when' they discovered the dissecting 
room undergoing a general menage by Cookie and his 
staff. So unusual an occurrence attracted a crowd of 
innocents, and speedily it was circulated that the room 
was about to be closed for the year. Instantly a great 
wailing and gnashing of teeth arose, but their fear was 
gradually assuaged when it was learnt that Dr. 
Shepherd was going to allow them a few days of grace 
ere he weeded his flock. 

* * 

5k 

During the absence of Dr. Mills, Dr. Morrow has 
endeared himself in the hearts of the Freshmen by his 
kindly help and guidance to those seeking the narrow 
path among the pit-falls that abound in the Physiolo- 
gical swamp. 

* * 

* 

At a meeting to dispose of the few invitations to the 
Science Conversazione extended to the Freshmen, 

Messrs. Draper, Barclay and Lee were elected. 

* 

* 5fc 

Drs. Cameron and Gardner have interviewed several 
of the Final year Medicine. Dr. Cameron’s excellent 
clinics and demonstrations have apparently borne good 
fruit. 

* 

5k * 

Dr. Bell continues to lecture in place of Dr. Roddick. 

It is to be hoped that Dr. Roddick will feel in a position 
to assist at the orals in surgery. His genial counte- 
nance and easy manner are said to wonderfully encour- 
age a student when passing through the trying ordeal 
of a viva vocc examination. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



1 79 



SCIENCE JOTTINGS. 

Science *95 have a playful way of hustling the 
members of the first two years in Arts. 

A Freshman who had been rather roughly treated by 
them gathered his friends together, and pounced on a 
rising and— to them— particularly obnoxious scientist. 
It is impossible to state definitely what they were 
going to do with him since their intentions were not 
allowed to develop freely. The general scrap which 
followed lasted only till Science ’95 had wedged the 
two principals into one corner, when it took the form 
of single combat. 

A few short moments, and “the strongest man in 
Arts ” was being used to wipe up the floor, whilst the 
excited cheers and class yell of Science ’95 mingled 
harmoniously with the oft-heard tinkle of the chestnut 
bell. 



Soph . at Co fiver sat . — “ Keep to the right, please, and 
don’t block the stairway ; ” and someone with a stern 
sense of the eternal fitness of things had pinned a 
placard on his back warning the passers by that it was 
“ Dangerous to touch this machine.’ ’ 



Senior . — “ Make way for the Governor-General. I 
am not the Governor-General, but he is right behind 
me.” 



The new ’95 banner is a handsome and artistic pro- 
duction. of which the Sophs may well feel proud. 



Student . — ( At conversazione') “ Take these stairs 
down to workshops.” 

Young Lady. — (. Excitedly .) “Oh don’t, please, till 
we get out.” 



Student. — “ This way to the supper room.” 

Elderly Lady . — ( Moving towards supper room). “ Oh, 
I smell steam ! Let us turn back ! ” 

The Undergraduates in Science have lately been 
complimented for their gentlemanly conduct ; but a 
certain cabman who mourns the loss of a whip, fare, 
etc., on Friday night is not disposed to concur with 
those of that opinion. 



There is now reason to hope that the long-talked of 
University pin will materialize before the session closes. 



The employees of the Engineering Building were 
treated to a well merited supper after the Conversazione 
on Friday night. 



At the annual meeting of the Canadian Society of 
Civil Engineers on the 23rd inst., Prof. J.T. Nicholson 



read an able and instructive paper on u Transmission 
and Distribution of Power by Compressed Air.” The 
Prof, incidentally referred to the commercial feasibility 
of a scheme to supply and distribute power by air com- 
pression in Montreal, notwithstanding the severe com- 
petition that might be expected from electricity, and 
pointed out* the advantages that would accrue to small 
industries by the establishment of such a system. After 
the paper was read, magic lantern views were shown 
illustrating the 12000 H P. plant now in operation in 
Paris. 



“Her sweet smile haunts him still.” On dit that 
Orion met his fate on the evening of the Conversazione. 



The handsome clock which adorns our library is a 
gift to the Faculty by Mr. Henry Birks, the well-known 
jeweller of St. James St. It is somewhat akin to our 
grandfather’s clock in point of size, and bears the fol- 
lowing inscription above its dial plate : — 

GOA BOV TYO VRB VS IN ESS. 

A city reporter recently took a note of it to consult 
his la tin lexicon as to its meaning, but as we have not 
yet received his translation, we submit it as an 
exercise for our classical readers. 



legae briefs. 

Lawyers are men of fine distinctions as a general 
rule, but when it comes to a decision as to the separa- 
tion of jurisdictions into the Civil and Criminal side, 
as applied to the humble apartments of the Faculty of 
Law, and the headquarters of musical associations and 
Delsarte movements, we bow to the higher authority of 
the Court of Appeals. 



Still further and more astonishing developments from 
our mild friend of “ Slaves are either born or made” 
fame ! 

His powers of anticipation seem to be unparalleled, 
and when it comes down to philosophic questionings 
even the class reporter drops pen and note book to 
pick up a thought or two. 



The First year have developed a musician, and our 
Final men’s terpsichorean powers are rapidly becoming 
matured. 



Professor Lafleur deserves the sincere thanks both 
of the debaters and the students in general for the 
able judgment rendered by him on the last case sub- 
mitted before the Moot Court. 

It gives additional interest to a case when a careful 
summing up is made of the various arguments, and a 
final decision is carefully arrived at with full quota- 
tion of authorities as in the instance mentioned. 



7 



i8o McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



REvEILLONS-NOUS. 

Monsieur le Redacteur : — 

Quoique cesous-titre s’adresse exclusivement a la Facul- 
ty de Droit da McGill, je ne voudrais pas que MM. mes 
Confreres comprissent par la que j’entends les qualifier 
d’indolence et d’assoupissement quant a ce % qui regarde 
notre Societe de Discussion Legale, qui etait certes appelee 
a autre chose qu’a croupir dans une apathie et une stagna- 
tion reellement honteuses, et pour nous tous, et pour Pil- 
lustre university dont nous faisons partie. L’invective, a 
mon point de vue et eu egard aux personnalitys a qui ell e 
s’adresserait, serait trop acrimonieuse et partant trop bles 
sante; je pryfere attribuer cette inertie de notre Societe 
Lygale a des raisons routes personnelles et majeures. 

Mais, enfin, le fait est la; et il est a mes yeux trop im- 
portant pour ne pas avoir a y songer. Nous avons fonde 
des le commencement de l’annee universitaire une societe 
legale; nous avons elu un comite pour s’interesser a ses 
progres, pour voir a son fonctionnement. II eut ete tout 
naturel d’avoir une reunion au moins tous les quinze jours 
Depuis six mois et plus que la societe existe, et nous 
n’avons assisty qu’a deux seances, et encore, y en a-t-il eu 
# des tenants et des aboutissants avant d’arrivera ce brillant 
paroxysme de notre energie ! Non, la chose est bien simple : 
nous dormons, du moins quant a ce qui regarde cette soci- 
ety legale, oui nous dormons, et vous savez, comme moi, 
que ce n’est pas malheureusement du somtneil du vieil 
Homyre. 

N’allez pas croire cependant que je veuille ici jeter tout 
le blame sur ceux que nous avons choisis pour diriger notre 
sociyte. II ne serait pas yquitable de leur imputer les torts 
d’un manque de devoir lorsqu’ils ne peuvent l’accompli r 
qu’avec notre concours et notre bonne volonte a tous et 
chacun de nous. Nous ne sommes plus aux temps oft 
Ton immolait le general pour la faute ou Pinertie de ses 
soldats. 

Je n’ai pas eu l’immense avantage de connaitre et de 
beneficier des diverses autres societesdont chaque Faculty 
du McGill s’enorgueillit; et je puis affirmer sans crainte 
que, s’il fallait juger de leur excellence et de leurs avance- 
ments par le nombre de nos travaux et de nos discussions 
dans notre societe legale, j’en aurais une opinion moins que 
satisfaisante. Cette reflexion qu’il ne conviendrait pas 
d’emettre, un autre pourrait parfaitement la faire, et c’est de 
cette fa^on (je le dis sans modestie) qu’elle pourrait acque- 
rir un certain poids. Enfin, je mets de cote pour le 
moment le ab uno, et j’ai tout lieu de croire que les autres 
societes de PUniversite McGill ne vaguent pas dans le 
surnaturel comme la notre et qu’elles ne sont pas de pures 
moqueries. 

Et pourtant qui peut nier les services immenses et les 
grands avantages que nous pourrions retirer d’une Societe 
Lygale ? qui peut ne pas voir le joli champ d’ytudes lygales 
que nous pourrions nous ouvrir avec une telle sociyty con- 
duite d’une maniere un pen plus active ? 

Je ne crois pas que la question de temps puisse arriver 
ici comme objection serieuse de n’impotte quel ytudiant. 
II est difficile d’admettre que nos minutes sont assez pre- 
cieuses pour ne pas nous permettre de disposer d’une 
heure tous les quinze jours. Lequel d’entre nous ne pour- 
rait pas sacrifier une soiree ou deux pour preparer un sujet 



de discussion legale ? Vous comprenez comme moi, mieux 
que moi-mfcme, que ce serait loin d’etre du temps perdu. 

Allons, ryveillons-nous un peu : depouillons-nous au plus 
tot de Pengourdissement qui nous envahit chaque jour 
davantage et qui tend a paralyser et a releguer dans 1 om- 
bre une societe qui pourrait nous ytre si utile ; ryveillons- 
nous, et sachons donner a notre Society Legale Pinitiative 
et Paction que savent deployer si vigoureusement les Mc- 
Gill boys quand ils en ont la ferme volonte. 

L. P. LeBeuf. 



ARTS NEWS. 

It is gratifying to be able to note that Dr. Cornish s 
illness has been short and slight, and that he has 
already returned to his chair. 



Mr. Deeks lately received word from Sir William 
with reference to the award of prizes in Zoology. The 
Principal states that he intends to return for Convoca- 
tion. 



“ Where is Convocation to be held this year? Are 
we to have the usual crush in the Molson Hall ?” 



In compliance with the invitation from the Gov- 
ernors, five men were appointed from each year to 
represent Arts on Friday evening last. - 



Mr. Townsend of the Fourth year has been appointed 
editor-in chief of the Presbyterian College Journal for 
the ensuing session, and Mr. Ireland of the Third year, 
business manager. 



Mr. Mullen of the First year is a contributor to the 

Dominion Illustrated. 



Although no doubt we envy Science the Engineering 
Building, the Sophomore who produced the explosion 
in the reception room was not a dynamiter. It was 
only chlorate of potash which came into contact with 
the sulphur of a match in his pocket. 



“ Fhwat’s this? ‘ Miss , Arts, ’99. Faith, oi 

knew some o’ thim studints was more than schwate 
sixteen.’ * 



Student in Zoology. — ‘‘I’m a bit of a liar myself/’ 



The Reading Room committee had to be photo- 
graphed again. This time Mc-v-r got his feet under a 
rug. 



McGill fortnightly 



181 



BREVITIES. 



There is a large number of Theologues in Zoology 
— taking orders . 

Lord Stanley was prest-on at the Science conversat. 

“ The biggest mash I ever struck in my life.” 
Lecturer in Zoo.— “The female is the great tor- 
mentor.” 



DONALDA NEWS- 

“ Their foot was on the open heath, 

Their name was not McGregor.” 

That was last summer during the long vacation 
when they went in search of health, happiness and 
plants, more especially plants, and found that pleasure 
as well as profit was the invariable result of their 
ramblings. 

On the opening of college the Donaldas found that 
more than one-fourth of Class ’94 had returned with 
fair collections. 

Professor Penhallow allowed all competitors suffi- 
cient time to compare plants (about whose names there 
was any doubt) with McGill’s extensive herbarium, 
which includes some 20,000 specimens, a large number 
of which were added during the past summer. 

The kindness of Miss Tatley and Mr. Cushing, 
which contributed so largely to the pleasure of classi- 
fication, will always be remembered by the collectors 
with gratitude. 

Their consideration in not remarking “You men- 
tioned that before” to the oft-repeated “O dear! I 
think this Aster must be a Solidage ” is to be com- 
mended. 

Our Donaldas worked with a will, and one especially 
strained every nerve and muscle in her endeavor to get 
to the top, unhappily the old step ladder rebelled, and 
it is still an open question as to which reached the 
floor first, but both were evidently made to bend and 
not break, las they were at work again the following 
day. 

Considerable interest is felt by the denizens of the 
East Wing as to the result of the competition. 

Prof, at Mechanics — “ Work out these exercises at 
home, they will be good for your (mathematical) 
physical health.” 

Sophomores would like to know how near a figure 
may approach the shape of a carrot and yet be called a 
cire by the professors. 

The Reading Room committee is to be congratulated 
011 the way it has provided rocking chairs — by removing 
two castors from each of the arm chairs. 

Committees are being] appointed by the members of 
Arts '93 to discuss the question of a “ class photo.” 
Popular opinion among the Donaldas seems to lean 
toward a picture, including, as the one of Arts ’92, the 
Professors and Arts Students— men and women. 



Arts ’9O still humbly keeps in the back-ground. 
We would like to hear occasionally from them. By- 
the way, how is the Greek alphabet progressing ? 

Trenchers, if slightly troublesome to some of our 
Seniors the other evening, certainly came out nobly in 
the supper-room. Lemonade, ice-cream and cake all 
found a corner on that improvized table, and obstinately 
gownless Donaldas were left out in the cold. 



Comparative Medicine News. 

As a sign of the interest and pleasure with which 
the appearance of the Fortnightly is hailed, one had 
only to see the expression of disappointment portrayed 
on every Veterinary student’s face when the last issue 
was distributed and they found our column absent. 

It is our duty to apologize both for ourselves and for 
the publishers. Matter was left with the publishers by 
the Faculty editor, but by some oversight it must have 
been mislaid, and when its absence was noted it was too 
late to remedy the mistake. 



Mr. R. H. Grattan will represent the Students of this 
Faculty on the editorial board, while Mr. H. R. Cleve- 
land will conduct financial affairs for the session of ’93 
and ’94. The worth of the Journal should increase 
under the stimulus of such talent. 



Wfiat’s the difference between a sporting editor and 
an editor of sports ? If there be any difference, how 
would a combination of the two work ? For a solution 
of this problem subscribe to the Fortnightly for 
next session. 



“ Where did you get that gown ? ” was the query of a 
Veterinary student 011 seeing one of his brethren clad 
in the robes of state, and endeavoring to wend his way 
up the memorable staircase on the evening of Feb. 
24th. His progress was amusing, he was clearly out- 
classed, his handicap was too great, the unnecessary 
raiment that adorned his person was constantly losing 
the symmetrical position it was intended for and inter- 
fering with his onward career. 



While the Professor of contagious diseases is braving 
the elements, tossing about on the restless bosom of 
the unquiet Atlantic, his class, lamenting the absence 
of their best frien 1, are looking into the possible future 
with anything but pleasure. The Ides of March 
were perhaps viewed with as little pleasure in the 
past as now. 



Cecil French is highly elated over the success of his 
bull dog at the recent New York dog show. 



A number of the students from across the line did 
not forget to celebrate Washington’s birthday. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



[82 



The only Fred, in view of the recent horrible out- 
rages visited upon the negroes in certain States of the 
South, has evolved from his cerebral convolutions a 
very sensible solution of the race question. There is 
rumor of a lecture tour. 



The orator of the Second year is confined to his 100m 
by illness. 

The Students of this Faculty would like very much 
to see one of their number placed on the senior foot- 
ball team when college opens next fall. Tiie work of 
Cowan and Anderson last fall on the intermediate 
team was highly creditable, and should not be over- 
looked when promotions are made. 



EXCHANGES. 

The Bema is among our later exchanges. It is published by 
the Students of the Union Baptist Seminary of St. Martin’s, 
N.B. 

It is well printed and artistically arranged. The editorials 
are not, perhaps, as broad as they should be, but the general 
contributions appear well up to the mark. 

The Acadia Athenceum is always welcome. It is well edited, 
and is more of the magazine type than what we have learnt to 
consider a “ college paper.” Number 4 contains a careful paper 
on Maritime universities, that very clearly sets forth their posi- 
tion ; and good men they can turn out, as many a faculty of 
our own university can testify. 

St.John's College Magazine has not as yet been reviewed in 
our columns. A change of editorship has, we believe, recently 
.taken place, but the standard of the publication remains as 
before — well up in the Canadian world of college publications. 
One of the editorials deplores the scarcity of contributed articles, 
and asks for renewed enthusiasm. This complaint is, unfor- 
tunately, a general one, and we can share with you your 
righteous indignation and distress. 

Varsity , Number 14, contains the usual amount of college 
notes and jottings. 

The constitution of their Athletic Association, the Mock Par- 
liament and the Inter-University Debate seem at present to be 
occupying, in the main, the attention of the men of our Sister- 
University. 



University Monthly , of Fredericton, N.B., in common with 
our friend the Varsity , is published by the Literary and Debat- 
ing Society of the University. The editorials of Number 4 are 
short and the correspondence is heavy,— a good sign on the 
whole ; outside interest is what is most seriously desired. 

In the Literary Column , a strong petition is made for a more 
liberal use of the college library by the Students, and also that 
arrangements be made to facilitate such enjoyment. It appears 
to be the strongest of the contributed articles. 



To review a publication of which Montreal may well feel 
proud, namely Arcadia— a journal devoted to music, art, and 
literature — is indeed a difficult task, if real justice is to be done 
to the publication. 

Montreal has been unfortunately for many years without such 
a magazine, and the want of such a journal has been severely 
felt by the educated and. literary public. The editor of Arcadia 
has recognized this want, and has not only filled all the 
requirements of such a publication in an acceptable manner, but 
has also placed his magazine within the reach of even the slen- 
derest purse. 

The issue of February 15th contains the customary twenty 
pages of reading matter. A delightful bit of Causerie relating 
to Jules Massenet is followed by musical notes from London, 
New York, etc. 

The section devoted to Art deals at length with the exhibi- 
tion of The Royal Ca7iadian Academy followed by extracts from 
the Diary of John Evelyn. 

The literary columns comprise a translation of the History 
of a famous French sou g—Au claire de la lune , and a very tasty 



series of Causerie by the literary editor In fact, the whole 
number is replete with articles of a most readable and instruc- 
tive nature, and Arcadia in every way fully deserves the high 
appreciation in which it is held by all its readers. 



PERSONAL. 

J. E. Schwitzer, B.A.Sc. ’91, who is at present located 
on the Ottawa & Parry Sound R.R., at Arnprior, Ont., 
was in town last week attending the annual meeting of 
the Can. Soc C. E. 

W. Smail, B.A.Sc. ’90, of the Londonderry Iron 
Mines, N.S., and J. G. H. Purves, ’92, of the Sidney Coal 
Mines, C. B., were among the delegates to the Mining 
Convention held in the city last week. 

Dr. Craik, Dean of the Faculty of Medicine, has com- 
pletely recovered from his recent indisposition, and is 
now about as usual. 

Dr. Blackader Professor of Materia Medica and 
Therapeutics, has been selected by the Faculty to de- 
liver the address to the Graduating Class in Medicine, 
on April 4th. 

J. H Antliff, B.A.Sc. ’89, has recently passed a very 
successful examination qualifying him for Dominion 
Topographical Surveyor. 



READING NOTES. 

Students, teachers and physicians get Turkish baths 
at half price at the Turkish Bath Institute in this city. 
Travellers say that nowhere in Europe can you get a 
better bath. 

Medical men generally are now recommending the 
Turkish Bath for the general health, and more espe* 
dally for rheumatism, coughs and colds. It is a very 
pleasant remedy. 

Gentlemen have the early morning, afternoon and 
evening hours. 



SAFETY BICYCLES 




L 1U lIie cuy, aDd will offer special 

inducements to Students during this month. We can supply wheels 
from $50 to $150, and we have sole control of the finest pneumatic 
tyre in the market. r uauc 



Fishing Tackle, Boxing Cloves and Ceneral Sporting 

Goods. s 

The Wightman Sporting Goods Co., 

403 ST. PAUL STREET. 

New Firm. y New Goods. 

PATERSON & FOSTER, 

Art Association Building, Phillips Square, 

Wish to introduce themselves and would be pleased to 
meet you and have you inspect their stock. 



TELEPHONE No. 3141. 



McGill fortnightly. 



|8 



* 

J 




TO RTMETES 

Regulation Mill 
Foot Boll 

Jerseys, Caps and Stock- 
ings, 

Running Shirts 

and Pants, 
English Spiked Shoes, 
Gymnasium Suits, 

etc., etc. 

Albert Demers, 

338 St. James St. 

Opposite Witness Office, 
JWJill Crests Worked on Jerseys. 



0 



Advertise Now 



IN THK 

McGill Fortnightly. 



STUDENTS’ HEADQUARYERS. 



All the Books required for the 




FACULTIES OF McCILL, 



TO BE HAD FROM 

w. DRYSDALE & GO. 

Down Town Store, - ■ 232 ST JAMES ST. 

Up Town Store, - - 2365 ST. CATHERINE ST 



THE SMITH PREMIER TYPEWRITER. 




“ Improvement the Order of the Age.” 

Competitors must improve in order to equal it. 

1744 Notre Dame Street, - MONTREAL. 

Agent for the EDISOH PHONOGRAPH. 

Telephone 2963. 



THE INGRES- COUTELUER SCHOOL OF LANGUAGES. 




100 Dorchester St., (KINKORA.) 

We have much pleasure in announcing that 
we have opened a 

Fencing • ecanemg 

in connection with our establishment. We have 
secured the services of Mr. A. Duret # late of 
the Ecole Superieure de Guerre, Paris, and are 
now ready for pupils. 

Terms : $io per month, lessons every day 
if desired. For clubs of ten members, McGill 
Students, $60.00 per month. 



THE INGRES-OOUTELLIER SCHOOL OF LANGUAGES. 



Single Trial Lessons Free. 



Send for Circulars 





t8 4 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 




THE BOYS ” buy their own and 
sweethearts’ 



O-LOVES 



0 



AT THE 



Paris Kid Glov<? Store. 

262 St. James St. | 2341 St. Catherine Street. 

jl a. mms a_ea» 

MEDALS fOR^SPORTS. 

Badges, Lapel Buttons, Pins, etc., in Hard 
Enamel, of all colors, a specialty. 

DESIGNS and ESTIMATES FREE OF CHARGE 

Experienced Designers and Ena*n filers on the premises. 
largest stock of 

Medium Priced Watches and Jewellery in the city. 

Jewellery made to order and Watches repaired at Lowest Prices. 

Tt. HEMSLEY, 

255 & 257 St. James Street. 

INCREASE YOUR INCOME 

by working during your spare time for a First Class Life 
and Accident Insurance Company, address P. O. Box 
835, Montreal. 




Flocueps ! Flocoeps ! ! 

The finest flowers, and most Artistic Floral work, can 
be had at all seasons and for all occasions. 

S. S. BAIN, Florist, 

B© BEAVER HALL HILL. A few doors below Dorchester St. 



SEASON 1592-93. 

I beg to announce that my stock, consisting of 

Suitings, Meltons, Beavers, Friezes, Xc. 

IS NOW COMPLETE, 

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 

k — DRESS SUITS, best cloth and workmanship. 
Silk Lining, $36.00, 

INSPECTION INVITED- 

WM. FflrRQUItflrFiSOM, 

Merchant Tailor, 

135 ST. PETER STREET. 



MO£TO£i, PHILLIPS & GO., 

STATIONERS, 

Blank Book fakers and Printers 



1755 & 1757 NOTRE DAME STREET, 



r 



— MOITTHEAL.— 

AGENTS FOR 

THE CAM©® A PM 

WRITINC MACHINE. 

What do you think 
I’ll shave you for nothing 
And give you a drink 

JOSEPH VEZINA, 

12 McCill College Av., just below St. Catherine St. 

PRICES; HAIR CUT 15 CENTS. 

Shaving, 12 Tickets si. 00. 



y 



Marisen Molillin’s Surgery 

Recommended for the use of Students by the 

Prof. Surgery in McGill and other Universities. 

PUBLISHED ON SATURDAY. 

For Sale only by the Exclusive Agent, 

E. M. RENOUF, - 2238 St. Catherine St. 

Copies can be seen at my store. 



rceipcAN pun gtoRe. 



27 St. Lawrence Main. 



buv 



25K 25 "* “* *“ «“ *. I. 




Hot Water, Steam and Sanitary Engineers, 



TO THE 



McGill University Building* 

Royal Victoria Hospital* 

Board of Trade Building. 

pggfflP 51 l PLMS and ESTIMATES given on application. 



ABB0TTS, CAMPBELL & MEREDITH, 

Advocates, Solicitors, etc. 

N"o, 11 Hospital Street, 
MONTREAL. 



J.B. Abbott, 

H. Abbott, Jr., Q. C 



H. J. Hague. 



C. S. Campbell, 
F. E. Meredith, 



J. S. Archibald, Q.C., D.C.L. 



Geo. G. Foster. 



ARCHIBALD & FOSTER, 

Advocates, Barristers, Etc- 

GUARDIAN ASSURANCE BUILDING, 

181 St. James Street, 

* MONTREAL. 



Telephone 1880. 
Cable Address, “ Arcfost. 



ATWATER & MACKIE, 

Adoocates, Barristers, Commissioners, etc. 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 ST. JAMBS STREET, 

MONTREAL. 



Hon. John S. Hall, Q.C. , M.P.P. 
Albert J. Brown. 



Selkirk Cross. 

W. Prescott Sharp. 



HALL, CROSS, BR0WH 5 SHARP, 

Advocates, Barristers and Solicitors, 

.... TEMPLE BUILDING .... 

185 St. James Street, - MONT REAL . 

MACMASTER & McGIBBON, 

ADVOCATES, BARRISTERS, EIC. 

The Temple, St. James Street, 
MONTREAL. 

Donald Macmaster, Q.C. Robert D. McGibbon, Q.C. 

F. S. Maclennan. 



Surgical instruments 

and Ghernical Apparatus. 

A full stock constantly on hand, imported direct from the leading 
manufacturers of the world. 

... AN INSPECTION INVITED. . . . 

LYMAN, SONS & CO., 

384 St. Paul Street. 



O&PO UP Photos, Combination or direct, 
UlWUr form one of our specialties— first 
5 class work. 

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 

t 

R. SUMMERHAYES & CO., 1 Bleury Street. 




5 sjn 



gur* 
fc E « 

^ 

s; h 

*§* M2SAIRK & IIIAMIRl§©IS s 

^ 1640 & 1642 NOTRE DAME STREET. | 



ROBERTSON, FLEET k FALCONER 

- ADVOCATES - 

157 St. James Street, 

MONTREAL. 



TV. & F. P . CURRIE & CO., 

100 CREY NUN STREET. 

IMPORTERS OF 

SCOTCH GLAZED DRAIN PIPES, 

Chimney Tops Vent Linings, Flue Covers, Fire Bricks, Fire 
Clay, Portland Cement, Roman Cement, Canada Cement, 
Water Lime, Whiting, Plaster Paris, Borax, 

China Clay, etc., etc. 



MANUFACTURERS OF 



Bessemer Steel Sofa* Chair & Bed Springs. 

A LARCE STOCK ALWAYS ON HAND. 




ALL THE LEADINC WHOLESALE TRADE HANDLE OLD CHUM PLUG AND CUT SMOKING TOBACCO. 



OLD CHUM PLUG AND CUT. 



MILL.ER tfc CO. 

16 and 18 DeBresoles Street* Montreal. 

Manufacturers of the Finest Quality E.leotTQ'Platedl Ward, And Sole Manufacturers of the Celebrated 

WM. ROGERS’ Knives, Forks, Spoons* Etc. 

A. J. WHIMBET, Manager. 



FURNITURE 



— FOE — 



Ppofessops and Students 
At Special Prices. 

RENAUD, KING & PATTERSON, 



MILLS, 

Furrier 8c. Hotter, 



ST. CATHERINE ST. 



2nd door West of Peel. 



652 CRAIG STREET. 



Good Fall and Winter BOOTS 



$2.75, 3.50, 4.00 PER PAIR. 






e. a- cefitH, 

DIRECT IMPORTER OF HIOK CLASS 

HAVANA CIGARS. 

B. B. B. PIPES. 

Sole agent for “ Ktriasi Freres ” 

EGYPTIAN CIGARRETES. 

Smoke Gerth's Celebrated Mixture. 

2235 ST CATHERINE QUEEN S BLOCK. 



WE MAKE NO BONES 



About it when we tell the Students that we carry the largest and 
best assorted stock to be found in Montreal, in the following lines, 
at HOCK BOTTOM PRICES, and give 5 p.c. discount to 
Students. So come to us for jour Hats and Caps, Underwear, 
Furnishings, also Boots and Shoes at 



Just the thin9 f or Students. 

JO 



Wm. F. SWARDON, 

2337 and 2339 St. Catherine St. 



JOHN ALLAN’S, 
659 TO 665 CRAIG STREET, 



Near Bleary. 



It goes without saying that 



- WALFORD’S 

Is the favorite Studio with McGill. Class pictures a 
specialty. Photos of Professors on sale. Special rates 
as usual to Students. 

COR. ST. CATHERINE AND VICTORIA ST. 
Bell Telephone 3346 . 



D. NIGHTINGALE, 

Manufacturer of Billiard Tables, Improved 
Cushions, and dealer in Sporting Goods, 
Best Hockey Sticks, &c., &c. 

1742 Notre Dame St., Montreal. 



Established 1859, 

HENRY m>. 0--R 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST, 

144 St. Lawrence Main Street, MONTREAL. 



The Dispensing of Physicians’ Prescriptions a specialty. 

Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers supplied with 
Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 




iTEjAM 



MAMAS EB 




Branches all over the City. 



136 TO 140 ST. PETER STREET, 

CORNER CRAIG. 



Telephones : Bell. 666 andll745. 



Mrf^ll I IT IS THE CHOICEST smoking tobacco that experience 

ITIVV4IUL. CAN PRODUCE OR THAT MONEY CAN BUY. 



MIXTURE SlVCOIYIISrQ- TOBACCO: 




Tobacconist, 208 St. James St. 



HYDE PARK, ATHLETE, PURITAN, DERBY, SWEET SIXTEEN CIGARETTES. 



r 

H 

X 

in 



LEADING WHOLESALE TRADE HANDLE OLD CHUM PLUG AND CUT SMOKING TOBACCO. 



