jVicGifek Fortnight^ 

A Fortnightly Journal of Literature, University Thought and Event. 



VOL. IV. MONTREAL, DECEMBER u, 1895. 



No. 5. 




$ EDITORIAL BOARD * 



Editor-in-chief— Robert T. Mullin (Law *96). 

Secretary — J. C. Robertson (Arts ’96). 

Harri Dell (Comp. Med. and Vet. Sc. ’96). Wm. McDougall (Sc. ’96). 

W. B. Mow att, B.A. (Med. *96). Miss \V. J. Pitcher (Donalda '96). 

Dr. R. Tait McKenzie (Graduates Society). 



* BUSINESS BOARD $ 

S. G. Archibald (Arts ’97;, Chairman . 

Edgar N. Armstrong, B.A. (Law *97). Miss M. Hutchinson (Donalda ’96). 
Wm. Prodbrick (Med. '96). J. W. Bell (Sc. *97). 

J. J. McCarrey (Comp. Med. and Vet. Sc. '96). 

The McGill Fortnightly is published by the Students of the University 
on the Wednesday of every second week during the College Session. 

The annual subscription is £1.00, payable strictly in advance. Remittance to 
be made to the Chairman of the Business Board, 113 McKay Street, Montreal. 
Single copies may be obtained at Wm. Drysdale & Co/s, E. M. RenouPs, Cyrus 
Ashiord’s, Chapman's and W. Foster Brown's, Booksellers. Price, 10 cents. 

Address Contributions to Editor-in-Chief, 105 St. Hubert Street, Montreal. 



EDITORIAL COMMENTS. 



A UNIVERSITY CLUB. 

We invite the attention of our readers to a letter 
published in another column of the FORTNIGHTLY, 
touching a matter which, we believe, ought to arouse 
the interest and appeal to the sympathy of all 
McGill students, and not students only but all others 
interested in the welfare of this University. Our 
correspondent refers to the absence among McGill 
men of that spirit of unity and oneness which ought 
certainly to characterize us as members of a great 
University, and pleads for some practical organiza- 
tion affording a broad and common meeting-ground 
for all students, no matter with what department or 
Faculty they may be connected. And he signals the 
advent of our new Principal as a propitious time to 
revive this subject, and to take some initial steps 
towards the realization of the scheme. 

In this matter of a University club the FORT- 
NIGHTLY is in entire accord with “ W. G.” We be- 
lieve there is urgent need of a Union Club, or some 
organization of like nature here in McGill. No one 
can fail to observe the defect in our University life to 
which our correspondent alludes. It has been re- 
marked by Qutsiders, and by eminent strangers who 



have visited us from time to time. The student who 
asks himself how often during the year the men of 
All-McGill meet together on common ground, and 
stops to reflect, will find to his surprise that it is on 
Sports Day only and (delightful by its novelty) Sports 
Night. The University dinner is too uncertain and 
precarious an institution as yet to be counted in. 
Even the University Lecture has lately been aban- 
doned. 

We meet then once a year on the campus to try 
the strength of our arms and legs, and perhaps once 
in five or six years we banquet together. But where is 
that constant intercourse, that regular and uninter- 
rupted reunion of the men of all Faculties, by which we 
may really come to know each other intellectually, 
socially and morally, and if it goes to that, on the 
lighter side also, even in our dining, amusements and 
athletics. It does not exist, because we are not organ- 
ized to that end, and have no common meeting place. 
Here our University life is obviously incomplete. 
Nor can we fully realize the extent of the loss suf- 
fered through the absence of a University club of 
some sort. Leaving aside sentimental considerations, 
and taking into cognizance only a few matters of 
practical interest, which cannot but appeal to the 
student, we can readily conceive that a Union club 
would pay from the students’ point of view. It would 
be an advantage to the student in his work, for 
instance, to be able to get his meals in close proximity 
to the University — good meals, well cooked, and at 
a moderate figure ; ii would be an advantage to have 
common facilities for all Faculty dinners ; to have 
ample and central accommodation for meetings of all 
Faculty societies, clubs and associations, or as mem- 
bers of one University-embracing society to meet to- 
gether on common ground to discuss subjects of gen- 
eral interest ; to have a University Hall suitable for 
lectures, entertainments, etc. Considering this last 
matter, we find ourselves at a great disadvantage in 
McGill. If we had a suitable hall, and were properly 
organized for the purpose, there is no reason why any 
eminent man who visits Montreal should be allowed 
to depart without addressing the McGill students 
and the University club might bring on such well- 
known men as it deemed fit, from time to time, to 
address the students. This is the plan adopted by the 
students of most American Universities, and, needless 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



80 



to say, it is productive of great benefit* Whatever 
may be said of the facilities, certainly the enterprise 
is not wanting in McGill. 

Here the question of the practicability of the project 
naturally arises. It is not our intention, however, to 
enter into that. All that matter has been fully 
opened up already in our columns. We invite the 
interested reader to turn back to No. 8 of Vol. II* 
(Jan. ioth, ’94), and there he will see a full and exact 
prospectus of a McGill University Club drawn up by 
Mrs. J. Clark Murray. It is sufficient to say that we 
consider the enterprise to be eminently practicable in 
every way. Its realization lies in the hands of the 
students. We have considered it our duty to draw 
the students’ attention to our correspondent’s letter 
in support of such a laudable object. Sh >uld the 
scheme find favor with the students of McGill, and 
further discussion of the subject be desirable, the col- 
umns of this Journal are free and welcome to any or 
all who may use them for that purpose. 

CORRESPONDENCE 



A McGILL CLUB. 

Dear Mr. Editor : — 

It is impossible to read the remarks of our newly 
installed Principal in the course of his first address to 
the students, without being infected with something 
of the enthusiasm with which he is inspired when he 
contemplates our University in the many phases of 
its work and influence. 

We have a University that in some departments 
of its work at least acknowledges no superior and 
few rivals. Its present pre-eminence is not the result 
of a mushroom growth, but the outcome of legitimate 
development answering to the demands of our young 
national life, a development fostered by unstinted 
generosity at the hands of citizens of our own city and 
province, men of whom we are justly proud and to 
whom our nation owes a debt that cannot be computed 
in dollars and cents. 

In all this extension of her spheres of influence 
and in the perfection of the efficiency of her several 
faculties, there is one feature in danger of being neg- 
lected, largely because the independent development 
of Faculty work is to some extent carried on at the 
expense of that to which I refer. I mean what has 
been called for want of a better name, the University 
spirit. The larger and stronger the Faculty, the more 
will a tendency manifest itself towards independence 
of its surroundings, and, therefore, a measure of isola- 
tion from the sister Faculties. 

Look over any number of our esteemed college 
journal, and tell me, Mr. Editor, what one desiring to 
ascertain the prevailing spirit of University life is 
most struck with. I believe it would be this, — the 



multiplicity of Faculty societies, with bounds and 
aspirations as broad and high as the limits of their 
respective Faculties, and the lack of common ground 
on which the social side of student life can find 
an opportunity to display itself. Faculty societies, 
with the purpose of fostering research and indepen- 
dent thought along the lines of their peculiar work, 
unquestionably serve a high purpose. But are we 
justified in wholly subordinating the broader and 
more generous, if less defined, aspects of University 
life to these, even if they are more intensely practical ? 

Why has not McGill ere this established an organ 
ization broad enough to embrace all undergraduates, 
and graduates too, for the matter of that ; — an organ- 
ization in which all petty Faculty rivalries will be sunk 
in the general desire to quicken and deepen our pride 
of University, that will bring Faculty into touch with 
Faculty, that will teach us who know each other as 
students to know each other as men, and that will 
beget in us the beginnings of that indefinable some- 
thing that is so sadly lacking in us as Canadians, 
— pride of country and nation, for where shall we 
better learn it than here, and when better than 
now ? 

Last year the project of a Union club was frequently 
discussed in the columns of our College Journal, and, 

I am satisfied, met with much favor from the major- 
ity of McGill men. The advent of our new Principal 
would appear to be an opportune time for a revival 
of the project. The Constitution of such an organ- 
ization cannot be evolved in a year, or in five years. 
The beginning would necessarily be small, but the 
possibilities of such an institution are beyond calcula- 
tion. 

McGill spirit just as much needs to be kept alive 
within her gates as in tar away Ottawa, or farther 
away New York, in both of which cities McGill asso- 
ciations have been established. 

As a student I appeal to my fellows to consider 
the subject. It does not lie with the Governors, or 
the Faculties, or the graduates, it lies with us who are 
still within the walls of old McGill, to see that this 
link, which shall so largely aid in maintaining and 
strengthening the unity of our University, shall be 
supplied in a form consistent with the other perma- 
nent institutions of McGill. 

W. G. 

CONTRIBUTIONS. 



HYDRAULICS. 

Professor Bovey, Dean of the Faculty of 
Applied Science, makes an important 
contribution to Scientific Literature. 

Professor Bovey ’s latest book, “ A Treatise on 
Hydraulics,” deals with a subject which is becoming 



McGill fortnightly 



8i 



of more and more importance, and especially with 
that branch of it which relates to the application of 
water-power to useful purposes. This increasing 
importance of the subject, together with the increas- 
ing interest taken in hydraulic work of all kinds, is 
naturally leading to a more extensive study of the 
principles upon which all such work is based. For 
this purpose teachers and students have long felt the 
want of a really good text-book, such as the one 
before us, which deals with the subject in a thorough 
and comprehensive manner. In preparing the work 
the author consulted many standard works and pub- 
lications on the subject, and has succeeded in bringing 
together much valuable information ; this, combined 
with his own experience, makes the book an impor 
tant one. In his work, the author, while dealing 
with the principles of the subject in a strictly theoret- 
ical manner, has not failed to recognize their more 
important practical applications ; and though detailed 
descriptions of the construction and working of 
hydraulic machinery has been entirely avoided, the 
work contains much valuable information of a practi 
cal nature. 

The work is divided into seven chapters, and deals 
with the flow of water through pipes, channels, ori- 
fices, and over weirs ; the impact of water, water 
measurement, and with the principles underlying the 
action of water-wheels, turbines, pumps and water 
pressure machinery. Many valuable tables are to be 
found in the book, and of these the two on page 24 
embody the results of a series of experiments carried 
out by the author on the coefficients of discharge of 
water through orifices of various slopes. These two 
tables will prove of great value, as the coefficients 
contained therein are probably more accurate than 
those previously obtained by other experimenters. 
The author has also carried out a series of experi- 
ments on the “Inversion of the Jet,” and of which 
he gives a brief account in article 13. In this article, 
he says “ When a jet issues from an orifice in a ver- 
tical surface, the sections of the jet at points along 
the path assume singular forms dependent upon the 
nature of the orifice.” From this statement it would 
appear that the phenomenon was to be observed only 
in the case of a jet issuing from an orifice in a vertical 
surface. But is that so ? Again, in explaining the 
cause of the phenomenon, the author agrees with 
Prof. Unwin and others in regarding it as being due 
to the “heads” being different for different parts of 
the orifice. Is this explanation, howeve-, the true 
one ? The work, however, is certainly an admirable 
one, and by far the best text-book published, and will 
considerably enrich the literature of a subject which 
is somewhat poor. An important feature of the 
book, and one which will prove of inestimable value 
to teachers and students, is the large collection of 



well selected examples, with answers, to be found at 
the end of each chapter. 

Although this treatise will certainly not prove 
attractive to readers who are totally unfamiliar with 
mathematical methods and conceptions, yet it su :ceeds 
in giving simple and elegant proofs (many of them 
new) of all the necessary theorems without introduc- 
ing any very advanced mathematics. 1 he work is 
well written, is illustrated by many excellent diagrams 
and figures, and is so arranged that the student pos- 
sessing the requisite mathematical knowledge should 
have but little difficulty in mastering it. The volume 
stands as a striking and permanent record of the 
manner in which the Science has for many years 
been treated by the author in lectures delivered to his 
students in McGill College, and will be welcomed by 
the scientific public as an authoritative treatise on a 
science of which the growing importance is continu- 
ally becoming more fully recognized. 

Professor Bovey is to be congratulated on the very 
able manner in which he has treated an abstruse 
subject, and the excellent manner in which the book 
is gotten up does credit to the publishers. (New 
York: John Wiley & Sons ; London : Clapman & 



NEW SOCIETIES OF McGILL GRADUATES. 

At the annual meeting of the Graduates Society of 
McGill University held at Montreal, 29th April, 1895, 
it was unanimously resolved that the incoming Execu- 
tive Committee be instructed to endeavor to establish 
Graduates Societies at Toronto, Halifax, New York 
and other places. 

Mr. A. O. U. Colquhoun, B.A., a member of the 
Society, residing in Toronto, was present, and 
addressed the meeting. He readily undertook the 
task of organizing a society of McGill graduates at 
Toronto. 

Mr. R. A. Gunn, B.A.Sc., also a member of the 
Montreal society, but residing in New York, prom- 
ised to use every effort to establish a similar society 
at the latter city. 

Some delay was caused through the non appear- 
ance of the revised list of graduates. During the sum- 
mer Mr. Gunn received £ proposal to organize, on a 
somewhat narrower basis, the Society to be composed 
of graduates in Applied Science ; this, however, he de- 
clined to entertain, and held to his original purposes. 

In the meantime, the revised list of graduates ap- 
peared, and copies of this, with a large number of 
copies of the by-laws and constitution of the Mont- 
real society, were forwarded to New York and 



82 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Toronto. Mr. Gunn lost no time in calling a meet- 
ing graduates resident in New York, and the result 
of his labors appears in the following letter : — 

New York. 23rd Nov., 1895. 

H. V. Truell, 

Secretary McGill Graduates Society, Montreal : 
Dear Sir, — I am pleased to announce that the 
New York Graduates Society is at last in existence. 
At a meeting held last night, by-laws were adopted, 
and the following officers were elected : — 

President . — Rev. Edward H. Kraus, M.A., LL.D. 
Vice-Presdients. — Dr. Wolfred Nelson, Dr. James 
H. Meek, Mr. Wm. de Courcey Harnett, B.A.Sc. 
Secretary . — Robert A. Gunn. 

Treasurer. — Dr. Hiram Vineberg. 

Committee. — Rev. Charles Bancroft, M.A., Mr. 
James H. Stevenson, B.A.Sc. 

We propose including as non-resident members all 
graduates in the United States, and hope soon to be 
in good working order and alive to the interests of 
Old McGill. 

Yours very truly, 

R. A. Gunn, 

Secretary. 



Mr. A. O. U. Colquhoun, in a communication to 
the Secretary of the Montreal Society, intimates that 
the Toronto Society will organize next week. 

What has actually been done will appear from the 
following press notice. 

McGill Graduates, Toronto. 

A SOCIETY ORGANIZED AT a METTING ON SATURDAY 

NIGHT. 

Toronto, Dec. 2.— The project of organizing the 
graduates of McGill University living here, which has 
been agitated for some time, received an impetus 
on Saturday night by an enthusiastic meeting 
at the Rossin House. Mr. John J. Maclaren, 
Q.C., presided. Among the graduates present were 
Mr. E. A. Meredith, LL.D., Dr. J. Algernon Temple, 
Mr. A. R. Lewis, Q.C., Mr. R. B. Hend erson, 
B.A., Dr. Riordan, Dr. Stevenson, the Rev. E. C. 
Trenholme, Mr. G. R. Sweeney, B A, Dr. H. C. 
Burritt, Mr. A. H. V. Colquhoun, B.A., Dr. Creasorn, 
Mr. P. E. Ritchie, B.A., Dr. McMicking, Mr. W. A. 
Cameron, M.A., Dr. Pringle, Mr. J. F. Warne, B.A., 
and others. The objects of the gathering were ex- 
plained by Mr. Colquhoun, who appealed to the 
graduates not to forget their Alma Mater in the 
presence of great universities like Toronto an J Trinity, 
but to organize in the interests of McGill University 
and of themselves. A formal resolution in favor of hav- 
ing a society in Toionto was unanimously approved. 
Mr. E. A. Meredith gave an interesting account 
of McGill in “ the day of small things,” namely, in 



1846 and subsequent years, when he was principal 
and professor of Mathematics without salary, and 
when the students of the Faculty of Arts numbered 
about eight. There were only four professors, and 
the annual revenue was about four thousand dollars. 
Dr. Temple, one of the leading professors in Trinity 
Medical School, said he was proud of his connection 
with McGill, and cordially endorsed the idea of a 
society in Toronto. Mr. A. R. Lewis, Q.C., recalled 
the days when the Burnside Literary & Debating 
Society was formed by the students, and believed 
that the Toronto graduates were anxious to prove 
their continued attachment to McGill. He advocat- 
ed a yearly scholarship to be given by graduates in 
Western Ontario, which would induce a larger num- 
ber of students to go from this part of Canada to 
what was now the leading university in the country, 
and as well equipped as any on this continent. 
Other addresses were delivered, and a committee, 
consisting of Messrs. Lewis, Ritchie, Burritt, Colqu- 
houn and Sweeney was chosen to draw up a con- 
stitution. A public meeting will be held in a few 
days to elect officers and arrange a programme for 
the season. Warm eulogies were bestowed upon the 
labors of Sir William Dawson and upon benefactors 
like Sir Donald Smith, Mr. John H. R. Molson, 
Mr. W. C. Macdonald and others. The number of 
McGill graduates residing here is between forty and 
fifty, and it is proposed to increase the membership 
by including all graduates residing in the vicinity of 
Toronto. 

Copies of the Constitution and By-Laws of the 
Montreal Society have also been sent to all graduates 
residing in British Columbia, and the prospects of 
forming a McGill Graduates Society on the Pacific 
Coast are very good. 

The Secretary is also in communication with 
graduates residing in Chicago, with a similar end in 
view. 

These societies are expected to keep their members 
in touch with their Alma Mater, and also to keep 
the public informed, in the places where they are 
located, of the educational advantages which McGill 
affords. 

dhis will be done by means of circulars and 
letters to the public press or by articles in magazines. 



THE DEATH OF VICTOIRE. 

( From the French.) 

I 

The comrades called him Victoire, but his real 
name was Jean Blouart. There was no doubt about 
it, he was certainly born under a lucky star, this trum- 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



83 



peter of the regiment. Fortune — fickle jade — had 
never played him false, and he succeeded in everything 
he undertook. No one sounded the riveil so well as 
he, and no sentinel’s step was as firm and quick on 
the rounds as that of Blouart. 

And what a trumpeter he was ! 

By nature a musician, you know, he had passed his 
boyhood’s days listening to the music of the winds and 
birds. Often, while tending his sheep on the green fields 
of Touraine, he used to manufacture strange whistles 
from bits of willow. He liked nothing better than to 
try and rival Nature’s songsters with those whistles 
of his. And now he owned a real instrument, and 
used to practise every afternoon while in garrison on 
the shores of the Orne. He could see the church 
towers of Caen above the chestnut trees on the Grand 
Promenade, their pointed spires pricking holes in the 
blue cushion of the heavens. 

At sundown the bells opened their brazen throats 
and rang out the chimes, at first in an indistinct 
murmur, then swelling loud and high, to float again 1 
into silence and slowly die away. Victoire paused 
every time to listen to this ineffable music; — not that 
he was given to dreams and reverie, on the contrary, 
he liked a jolly good time and a hearty laugh as well 
as any of them, and his “ frank French eyes” looked 
ever bravely and boldly into the face of the whole 
world. 

His only sorrow had been to leave his home and 
father, who was now well on in years. Yet he con- 
soled himself with the thought that time was passing 
quickly, for he had but two more years to serve. 
At times the bells reminded him of the Angelus at 
home, and he would think sadly and fondly of the 
little ivy-covered cottage and of the old man smoking 
his pipe in the doorway; but he was only twenty- 
five years old, and at this age is not life’s prospect set 
in blue and gold and all the living easy? 

And then he liked the garrison life ; trumpeting 
morning and evening, marching through the streets 
full of people, and after drill, resting beneath the trees 
and chatting of the pretty blonde heads they had seen 
behind the shutters. 

And so the time passed quickly ; then war broke 
out. 

II 

They had been fighting all day. The sun had 
reached the horizon, and still the battle continued. 
Both sides had sworn to conquer, and neither would 
surrender. 

The trumpet-call was heard from time to time in 
the heart of the melee , rivalling the noise of the cannon 
and the shouts of the soldiers. 

Blouart advanced. A crowd of soldiers, dazed and 
stupefied with the smoke and carnage, followed 
blindly at his heels. Victoire seemed to realize the 



significance of his adopted name. He rushed on the 
enemy like an infuriated war-horse, and never ceased 
sounding the charge. Suddenly he found himself sur- 
rounded by hostile faces ; not a French uniform could 
be seen near him. He tried in vain to force a way 
through the living wall of men, rifles were drawn on 
him, and he was taken prisoner. 

The sun disappeared slowly, slowly, night 

descended and covered the scene of death with her 
sombre mantle: the battle was at an end. 

Blouart marched along between the soldiers over 
the hills past fields and woods. The din of battle 
was still in his ears, and he walked as in a dream. 

At last they stopped for the night near a wood ; the 
fires were lighted, and threw strange shadows among 
the trees. Overcome by fatigue, Victoire threw him- 
self down on the moss, fell asleep and dreamed. He 
was once more a child at home. The day was bright, 
and the birds sang; his mother was busy at her spin- 
ning-wheel. School was just over, and he had come in 
with a long rod found by the roadside, which he dis- 
played with no small pride and joy. What a fine gun 
it makes ! He struts about the yard, a mimic soldier, 
when suddenly a large dog passes, barking loudly. 
The valiant soldier takes fright, throws down his gun, 
and runs away at full speed. His mother calls to him 
from the window : “Shame on you! A true soldier 
never surrenders ! ” 

A true soldier never surrenders ! 

Blouart seemed to hear these words in his ear. He 
awoke with a start and looked around him. The 
camp slept. Only the sentinel’s step could be heard as 
he tramped over the soft moss. The sky was bright 
with stars ; a fresh breeze arose, bringing with it the 
fragrant scent of the forest. Victoire passed his hand 
over his forehead, and remembered that he was a 
prisoner. 

He must get up : he will escape or die but 

no ! he is watched, and cannot move. 

Hours go by, the sky grows white, and a path can 
now be seen winding along the edge of the forest to 
a hill before them. This road passes by a deep 
ravine, from whose depths can be heard the roar of 
a mountain torrent. The signal for departure is given, 
but this time not by Victoire. He looks sadly at his 
trumpet, and a wild desire to die takes possession of 
him. 

A true soldier 7iever surrenders ! 

These words still echo in his ears. He is walking 
between two soldiers. The precipice is there just at 
hand, and with it death and deliverance. Victoire 
throws himself against the soldier on his right, who 
gives a terrible cry and is hurled into the abyss. 
Blouart is about to follow, but is beaten back by the 
soldiers’ rifles ; he feels the cold steel on his forehead 
and closes his eyes. 



8 4 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



He thinks of his old father, without his son, alone, 

ending his days in desolation and he no longer 

has the courage to die. 

The captain orders the rifles lowered, he evidently 
has something worse than death in store for this 
prisoner. 

And now the sun is shining on meadow and hill. 
By the roadside the oak and beech trees stretch 
forth their nervous arms, from each leaf a diamond 
drop of dew is hanging. All nature is alive and glad 
beneath the glorious sky and the world is flooded 
with light and joy. But Victoire sees nothing. What 
has he in common with these beauties of nature ? He 
listens only to the anguish of his heart, and yet, 
the voice which demands life and happiness becomes 
stronger. He is so young, and has so much of life 
before him! No! he cannot die! 

At last the hill is climbed. An officer approa hcs 
Jean Blouart and unties his hands. 

“Now,” said he, “you are to play for us, here, 
where you can be seen. You see those men in the 
plain, those are the soldiers that you must rally; 
when you have played, you shall be free ! ” 

“ Who are the soldiers ? ” Victoire asked. 

“That is none of your business ! ” the officer answered 
roughly. “ Do what I tell you, or you’re a dead man,” 
and Blouart saw the rifles levelled at him. Then the 
men disappeared and hid themselves in the wood on 
each side of the road. 

“ Play, then ! ” cried a fierce voice. “ You others, 
shoot him if he does not obey.” 

The click of the triggers was heard in the pause that 
followed, while Victoire took his trumpet and pre- 
pared to play. 

His eyes scanned the country before him ; in the 
hollow of a hill some distance off, he perceived a 
small camp of French soldiers. 

The captain’s object was to draw them in!o the 
open country, and the trumpeter’s uniform was to be 
the means of effecting this. 

“ Play, then !” repeated the terrible voice, lean 

Blouart put the trumpet to his lips and began 

to play. The joyous notes of the instrument fell on 
the air like a festal song, but it seemed to Victoire a 
cry of death and desolation. 

He played the French camp seemed to stir. 

They had seen him, and recognized a comrade with 

shouts of joy. He played and the excitement 

among the soldiers increased. He played with all his 
strength, and the notes fell quickly one upon the 
other. 

Suddenly a church bell rang out from the valley 
the hour of noon. A bloody mist passed before Vic- 
toire’s eyes. He thought of the Angelus of Caen ; 
he saw again the chestnut trees on the Gr nd Prom- 
enade, his home, his father his beloved France 



and now he was betraying this France, instead of 
sacrificing himself for her ; instead of giving her his 
heart’s b!ood, he was helping to ruin and kill her. He 
was calling Irs b others to certain death. He was a 
traitor ! 

And every rustle of the wind in the trees, every 
twitter of the birds, every stroke of the bell, echoed : 
‘Tiaitor! Traitor!” He dropped his trumpet. 

“ Play on ! play on ! ” yelled that implacable voice. 

“Yes, yes, I will play, monster! I will play!” 
answered Blouart and with all the strength that was 
left him, he p’ayed the alarm and retreat. 

A rain of bullets beat down upon him. 

Then turning towards the wood and drawing him- 
self up to his full height, sublime in his scorn and 
death agony : “ Curses on you ! ” he cried “ Curses on 
you all ! ” 

A fearful report followed. Blouart swayed to and 
fro, then fell forward on his face. 

The trumpeter Victoire was no more. 

Helen R. Y. Reid. 



POETRY. 



WITH THE DEAD LEAVES. 

IN MKMORIAM. 

Watching the dead leaves drift along 
Urged by the keen wind’s restless feet, 

Tos'ed here and there in a shuddering throng, 
Through the lanes of the well-swept street; 

Wanders my memory back to the time 

When I wooed my love with sigh and rhyme. 

Then it was spring, and the sun rays shone 
On fresh young tints from a cloudless sky ; 

And I with my sweetheart strolled alone 
To tell her my soul’s deep ecstacy ; 

I ki-sed her smiles, and my thoughts love-mad 

Ne’er dreamed that the future could be so sad. 

But winter came and the green leaves fell, 

My Love’s soul went to the Dreamland shore ; 

And the winter with dead leaves sang the knell 
Of the good true heart I should woo no more ; 

So when I hear the leaves and the rain 

I think of my love, and live again. 

Stat Nominis Umbra. 



NEAR THE BELOVED. 

(from ooethe.) 

I think of thee when morning dawn erst glimmers 
Across the Eastern sea ; 

When the late moonbeam o’er pale fountains shimmers, 
I think of thee ! 

I see thy f«>rm when from the distant ridges 
The clouds their grey wreaths raise ; 

When the night farer on the path’s frail bridges 
His foot essays ! 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



85 



I hear thy voice when the fierce heavens darken, 
And thunderous surges rise ; 

In the still grove often for thee I hearken 
Under hushed skies ! 



I am by thee how far thy step e’er roameth ; 

Thou standest ever near ! 

The sun descends ; the early twilight cometh ; 
Oh, wert thou here ! 



Berlin. 



Robert MacDougall, 



THE BOOKWORM. 

See him sit in his easy chair 
With books around him everywhere, 

He rarely rises save to eat, 

And then comes back to the old seat ; 

Little he cares for worldly pelf, 

He owns a world all to himself, 

When he has his beloved books 
For other favors he ne’er looks. 

Precious manuscripts, thick with dust, 

Ancient records, smelling of must, 

Former dramatists, known by few, 

Chroniclers old and poets too — 

All are focd for his hungry brain, 

He cons them o’er and o’er again. 

Books in Persian, Arabic, Greek, 

Many a language does he speak ; 

Now see his face with pleasure glow, 

Poring over some folio, 

In which he has found something new, 
Brought for the first time to his view. 

There then he lives the whole year round, 
Never disturbed by outside sound ; 

Until we hear it said some day — 

“The old Bookworm has passed away.” 

SCHOLASTICUS. 



SOCIETIES. 



UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY. 

The usual weekly meeting of the Literary Society 
was held on Friday evening, November 29th. Owing 
to the absence of the President, and as at the hour 
for meeting neither of the vice-presidents was 
present, Mr. N. W. Trenholme was voted into the 
chair. 

The first item on the programme was a reading by 
Mr. J. W. Thomas, Arts ’98, from the “ Pickwick 
Papers.” He was followed by Mr. A. R. McMaster, 
Arts ’9 7, who read an essay on Thackeray. 

The debate was next proceded with : “ Resolved, 
that the introduction of professionalism has degraded 
sport.” 

The debate was an open one, and provoked much 
interesting discussion. Mr. A. C. P. Howard, Arts 
’97, led the Affirmative, and Mr. Ewing, of Law, the 
Negative. 

After an animated debate, in which Messrs. Archi- 
bald, Patch and McMaster spoke for the Affirmative, 



and Messrs. Saxe, Trenholme and Colly for the Nega- 
tive, a show of hands on the resolution was called for, 
by which it was seen that the Negative had won. 

The Society then listened to Mr. James Stevenson, 
the critic’s remarks. His criticism was remarkably 
good. He was the personal friend of many of the 
speakers, and was thus able to point out defects, 
which could not have been pointed out by an ordin- 
ary college acquaintance. 

A song was next given by a quartette composed 
of Messrs. E. and M. Burke, Moore ana Atkinson. 
This was much enjoyed by the Society, who de- 
manded an encore, which was given. Mr. 
Trenholme, the chairman, then made a few remarks 
concerning the Society. 

He said he w r as sorry to see the lack of interest 
taken in it by the Fourth Year Arts; but he was 
pleased to see men from other Faculties taking an 
interest in the Society. 

Second Report. 

The usual weekly meeting of the above Society 
was held on Friday, 22nd November. President V. E. 
Mitchell in the chair. The programme was opened 
with a reading by Mr. E. MacConnell, Arts ’98. 
Neither song nor essay was forthcoming, so the de- 
bate began. It was a class debate between the 
Freshmen and the Sophomores : “ Resolved, that the 
introduction of women into business is beneficial to 
the race!” The Freshmen upheld the Affirmative, 
the Sophomores the Negative. Mr. Cameron, Arts 
’99, was absent, and owing to this Mr- Dewitt opened 
for the Freshmen. He contended that women enno- 
ble and refine business methods, and thus benefit 
the race ; and also said that competition was not a 
bad thing. 

Mr. Bishop opened for ’98. He said that women 
in business did not marry, and thus the race was 
injured. Mr. Phillips next spoke for the Freshmen, 
and contended that men should be content with the 
same wages as are given to women. 

Mr. Patterson followed for the Negative. His^ re- 
marks were logical and to the point — “ Who shall 
take care of the children if the mothers go into 
business ? ” 

Mr. Gregg, Arts ’99, next volunteered to speak for 
his Year. He had come unprepared, but nevertheless 
made a clear, sensible effort. He said that women 
did not crowd into factories to oust the men, but be- 
cause driven by necessity. He took the case of a 
working man, who on $1 or $1.25 a day has to bring 
up a large family of girls. The girls have to work 
for themselves, they cannot all become household 
servants ; of necessity they must enter a factory or 
other centre of industrial activity. 

Mr. Duff, Arts ’98, then spoke. He said the ques- 






86 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



tion was a question of dollars and cents, and that 
women in business reduced wages. 

The Sophomores won the Debate. 

Mr R. P. Campbell, Arts ’97, gave the criticism of 
the evening's work. After criticizing the various 
speakers individually, he made some general remarks, 
which the Scribe thinks quite worth the trouble of 
placing before the eyes of every speaker, young or old, 
of our Society. Mr. Campbell insisted on proper 
position — (we must not lean on the desk), on dignity, 
and on the use of pure English in our speeches, 

After a few remarks from the President the meet- 
ing adjourned. 

Scribus, Senior. 
McGILL Y. M. C. A. 

Two very profitable meetings of the Association 
were held on Sundays, November 24th and December 
1st, in the Association Building, Mr. Tory in charge. 
The topics were, for December 1st, “Jesus and the 
Samaritan Woman,” and for the previous meeting 
“ Jesus and Nicodemus.” It was brought out very 
clearly and impressively that Christ was to men that 
which the Jewish people should have been to the 
world — the repository of divine truth, the illumina- 
tors of mankind. The Jews in large measure failed 
to accomplish their great mission. The lamp of life 
had been given to them, but they obscured its light ; 
they were a city set on a hill, but they neglected 
their opportunities, they failed to realize their res- 
ponsibilities. Christ showed to the Jews, as well as 
to the woman at Sychar’s well, what a true type of a 
Jew an ideal Israelite should be in his conduct with his 
fellow-men. 



Y. W. C. A. 

November 22nd, 1895, Miss Ross led our meet- 
ing, the subject being “The Duty of Happiness.” 
Our leader introduced many beautiful, lofty thoughts 
and ideas. Each one has her duty in this world, 
and we are enjoying many advantages for which we 
are responsible. Our life should be such as to lead 
others to Christ. Cheerfulness should always be ours, 
for each one has sorrows and petty worries, but these 
should not trouble us. We have to look forward, and 
not be so engrossed with our own affairs- Our 
Master’s glory is dependent upon us, for if we do not 
live happy, peaceful lives, how can we expect those 
who are not His to follow us ? He never gives us 
more than we can bear, and although we do not 
always and cannot always see the outcome, we can 
“ cast all our cares on Him, for He careth for us.” 
Miss Ross’ remarks led others to make some, which 
added to our enjoyment. 



Miss Derrick addressed us on the subject “A 
Christian Girl in her Home,” November 29th, 1895. 
Many were present, and each one profited by the in- 
formation gained in the half hour thus spent. Miss 
Derrick in her friendly way took the two opposite 
characters found in Mary and Martha, the sisters of 
Lazarus, and all beloved by Christ. 

Mary was the one who had “ chosen the better 
part,” and was stationed at the Lord’s feet attentively 
listening to His teaching. 

Martha, the energetic, self-reliant one, who was to 
welcome the Lord at her home, had also believed on 
Him, but in her overstrained and anxious condition 
fretfully reminded the Lord of Mary’s duties. 

This is often the case with us. Perhaps we have too 
many outside duties to perform, and we do not give 
attention to those in our homes. VVe willingly 
“ do ” what we thinlc they would like, but we do 
not seem to “ be ” what we ought. We lack 

sympathy with their work and pleasure, and even 
often unconsciously expect our friends to tolerate 
our shortcomings, because we are engaged in 
too many outside duties. But we should carry out 
our Saviour’s example and command, and thus aid 
others. This is our duty and privilege. 

A 2 

THE ANNUAL LECTURE TO THE A 2 

SOCIETY. 

Those who had not the privi'ege of hearing Pro- 
fessor Cox in his “ Talk on Music ” will, we believe, 
be glad of some account of it, even though at second- 
hand and shorn of much that made it delightful. 

The opening remarks of the lecturer brought before 
us the fact, that the majority of people might, if pro- 
perly trained, learn to appreciate and enjoy good 
music, although they may never hope to become 
great artists, and these merit more attention than is 
usually given them. The man of average musical 
instincts must not desire to perform, but to appreciate. 

As an example of what may bring this about, the 
lecturer traced through different stages the develop- 
ment of his own faculty for enjoyment and appre 
ciation. The first time he heard oratorio was at a- 
performance of Handel’s Messiah; then there were 
evenings at a friend’s house, where two talented school- 
mates filled him with enthusiasm for the piano com- 
positions of Mendelssohn and Beethoven. Next 
came his first popular concert at St. James’ Hall, 
where the best artists of the day have for nearly forty 
years performed, twice a week, programmes selected 
from the great range of Chamber music. This, which 
proved but the first of many such concerts forhim, 
was an event long to be remembered. Sitting behind 
the orchestia, he found himself among those “people 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



who have plenty of brains, no money,” and faced, not 
those of “ plenty of money, no brains,” but an audience 
among whom were often seen George Eliot, Robert 
Browning, Sir Frederick Leighton and many more of 
the world’s famous men and women. The quartette, 
led by Dr. Joachim, consisted of first and second 
violin, tenor violin, and a cello; Madame Schumann 
often accompanied on the grand piano. For 6d. one 
might obtain a twenty-four page programme of the 
concert, containing a sketch of the life of the composer 
from whose works selections were to be given, full 
analysis of them, and quotations from the different 
movements. 

The Cambridge experience began in 1870. At 
that time there were three really fine pianists and 
two choral clubs in the University. Every Wednes- 
day evening delightful concerts were given by an 
amateur string quartette in the Guild Hall. These 
have since developed into more elaborate affairs with 
orchestras from London. Perhaps the most memor- 
able occasion was when the University conferred the 
degree of Mus. Doc. on Dr. Joachim and Brahms, 
who wrote his great First Symphony for the Festival 
Concert held in the evening. 

Such opportunities do not come to everyone, but 
equally satisfactory results may be obtained from 
judicious training. Too often, however, the child of 
average musical ability is most unwise y instructed. 
She is kept at the melancholy practice of scales and 
five-finger exercises, without sufficient relief afforded 
by good though simple music, abundance of which 
can be found in the works of the great masters, until 
she believes there is no such thing as pleasure or 
beauty in music. Then at last the great day comes, 
when, with much trepidation, she plays her first 
“ piece” in the drawing-room, and all the assembled 
friends exclaim, “ How well Amelia is getting on 
with her piano!” During the next few years Amelia 
probably masters two or three of these “ pieces,” and 
then is launched on society with this her musical 
stock-in-trade, a pitiable object to those who know 
what might have been. She should never have been 
taught to expect to entertain drawing-room assem- 
blies, but to love music for its own sake and the 
pleasure it will give her. Instead of confining her to 
one or two showy and difficult compositions, she 
should have had a wide range in music suited to her 
capacity. A library of the works of the best com- 
posers should have been kept in the home, where she 
might wander at large through them and choose what 
gave her enjoyment. 

We make mistakes too about our concerts. We 
“find out what Stars are travelling in the United 
States,” bring them on for one or two good selections, 
pad up the rest of the programme with indifferent 



*7 



items, go to the trouble of evening dress, and come 
away feeling little repaid. Let us find out our own 
good musicians, and see to it that the same high level 
is maintained throughout the programme, the same 
main idea being perceived in each selection. 

Much would be done for music in our midst if such 
an example as that set by a certain Liverpool gentle- 
man were followed. He let it be known that on the last 
Monday of every month he would be at home for 
music in the evening. Many needed no second bid- 
ding, and among those who flocked to the house, 
the lecturer found himself one evening. In the recep- 
tion room, programmes were found, which stated there 
would be three string-quartettes, — one by Hadyn, 
another by Mendelssohn, and the third by Beetho- 
ven. 

A large picture gallery, containing many beautiful 
paintings, was then entered, and here the four best 
violinists from the Manchester band were listened to. 
Between the selections the audience wandered about 
the gallery to look at the pictures and talk together 
of the music, and this through the kindness of one 
who loved to share his pleasures with his fellow-men. 

Then with a clear and brief summary of the main 
suggestions of the lecture, Professor Cox brought his 
remarks to a close. 

W. J. P. 

The regular meeting of the Delta Sigma Society 
was held on Thursday, Dec. 5th: “Resolved, that 
the heroes of modern times are greater than those of 
antiquity.” Miss Bourke-Wright and Miss Pitcher 
upheld the Affirmative side, and Miss Ross and Miss 
Brooks the Negative side. Miss Bourke-Wright 
opened the debate by explaining the terms heroes 
and modern times. Modern times may be taken 
as the seventeenth, eighteenth, and nineteenth cen- 
turies. A hero is a man who realizes to the full the 
possibilities of his nature ; he has two natures, — a 
bodily and a spiritual nature, and the greatest hero is 
he who realizes the possibilities of his spiritual 
nature. Among the early races a man who possessed 
great worldly comforts was a hero. Now heroes are 
men who work for others, in a spirit of self-sacrifice. 
Among the examples mentioned of modern heroes 
were Dr. Barnado, Tyndale, Huxley, and General 
Gordon. 

Miss Ross said that antiquity might be considered 
as ending with the Fall of the Roman Empire. She 
maintained that the spirit of heroes was the same in 
all ages. 

The greatest hero, the Man Christ Jesus, lived in 
antiquity. Socrates, Damon and Daniel were alluded 
to as heroes ; Daniel’s heroism was of that highest 
kind which devotes itself to an abstract cause. Miss 
Pitcher, the second speaker on the Affirmative, said 



88 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



that such men as Alexander and Pompey were con- 
sidered heroes ; but what noble motives actuated 
them ? Had antiquity any heroes to compare with 
W ilberforce, or Howard the prison -reformer, or with 
such missionaries as Moffat ? 

Gi eater is he that ruleth his spirit than he that 
taketh a city. 

Miss Brooks, the second speaker on the Negative, 
diev attention to the fact that the Negative side had 
not to prove that heroes of antiquity were greater 
than those of modern times, but as great- 

1 o 

She maintained that the discussion did not con- 
cern such men as Alexander, for it concerned not 
those who were thought heroes in their own age, 
but those who are thought heroes to-day. And what 
missionary can modern times boast of more heroic 

than St. Paul ? Miss Bourke- Wright then closed the 
debate. 

The vote of the meeting awarded the victory to 
the Negative side. 

Miss Armstrong kindly acted as critic. 



McGILL C. C. 

A small devoted band assembled in the Classical 
seminary room on Wednesday evening. 

A large amount of important business was trans- 
acted. The call for “ Programme ” was responded to 
with good readings by Messrs. Ferguson and Patch 
both of Arts ’99. 



“’96 JOURNAL CLUB.” 

The Club convened on Thursday evening last 
with the president, Mr. Harri Dell, in the chair. 

Reports of drug experimentation and of practical 
work were received. 

Two articles from the Journal of Comparative 
Medicine were read and discussed : One on Gastritis 
Caninus was from the pen of Dr. Cecil French, the 
other was on Immobility in the Treatment of Arti- 
cular Affections, and written t^y Dr. Willyoung, 
both gentlemen being graduates* of McGill. 

Woik for the ensuing week was mapped out, and 
the meeting adjourned. 

F. W. K. 



SOCIETY FOR 1 HE STUDY OF COMPARA- 
TIVE PSYCHOLOGY. 

Ihe Society met in the Library on the evening of 
2nd December, the president, Dr. Mills, in the chair. 

Minutes of previous meeting were read and con- 
firmed. 

The secretary read a communication from Dr 
Cecil French, relating to the high degree of intelli- 



gence seen in a spaniel owned in Washington, D.C. 

Another communication was from Mr. L. A. Clure 
of Black Lake, P.Q., describing the peculiar psychic 
phenomena exhibited by a Dachshund in his posses- 
sion. 

One of the members read the concluding portion 
of the article found in the Popular Science Monthly 
on the Psychology of Woman. 

Mr. Midgley, Med. ’97, reported some very inter- 
esting experiments on the special senses. At the 
request of the president he will continue his investi- 
gations, and report the results at a future meeting. 

Mr. Fred Kee read a paper of much literary and 
scientific merit on “The Moral Sense in Animals.” 

Mr. S. Macnider treated the subject of Psychology 
of Man and the Lower Animals as well as it could be 
handled in a short paper. 

Owing to the lateness of the hour the discussions 
were necessarily limited, but the members dispersed, 
voting the meeting one of the most thought-provok- 
ing of the session. 

H. D. 



VETERINARY MEDICAL ASSOCIATION. 

A regular meeting of the Association was held in 
the Library on 10th November, 1895, the honorary 
president, Dr. D. McEachran, occupying the chair. 

Mr. J. H. Patterson’s case report was read, but 
discussion deferred until the next meeting. 

“ Diagnosis and General Symptoms of Disease” 
was the subject of a paper by Mr. J. Greer. 

This evoked a lively discussion from the members, 
Dr. McEachran’s remarks on the subj' ct of Coughs 
being of especial interest. 

Di . Dawes of the Health Department addressed 
the meeting with reference to the work of the Exper- 
iment Committee, after which adjournment took 
place. 

H. D. 



McGILL MINING SOCIETY. 

The regular meeting of this Society was held in 
the old Science Building, on Friday evening, Novem- 
ber 29th. Mr. R. Green read a paper on the Eustis 
mme at Capelton, Que. The paper contained a 
great deal of information, and showed that Mr. Green 
had mastered the details of mining methods and of 
the machinery in use in this mine. 

The paper was especially interesting to those of 
the members who had visited the mine last spring 
There will be a meeting of the Society on Friday 
December 13th, if possible. 



McGlLL FORTNIGHTLY 



89 



CLASS REPORTS. 



LEGAL BRIEFS. 

The great football match Law vs. Arts is over, 
and the magnificent victory of Law is still a subject 
of rejoicing. Of course everyone expected Law to 
win, even the most enthusiastic Arts man refusing 
to back his team at any price. Still, the victory was 
none the less pleasing on that account, and we hope 
it may again be repeated next year. 

The members of the football team were formally 
congratulated by the Faculty, and a dinner in their 
honor was proposed by Mr. Doucet. This proposal 
was agreed to with great applause ; but as the 
Exams are at hand, the date has been indefinitely 
postponed. 

The members of the Moot Court committee have 
certainly been very remiss in their duties this year, 
not one single case having been given by them to 
the students for discussion. Their conduct has in 
consequence been very freely discussed, and Mr. B., 
at a meeting some nights ago, forcibly reminded 
them of the fiduciary position they occupy towards 
the Faculty. Shortly after this, a case — or rather a 
question, for it admitted of only one answer — was 
generously presented by them for argument, but for 
some unknown reason has been dropped. This is 
certainly not right, and the more violent of the Fresh- 
men advise a writ of mandamus, an injunction, any- 
thing, in fact, that will force them to do their duty. 
Beware O committee ; justice, though slow , is stire. 

What a jewel our Secretary is ! He has only read 
the minutes once this year, and then they were 
decidedly original and peculiar. No wonder they 
excited a hubbub ; but no one really has any right to 
complain, for compliments and strictures were dealt 
out with charming impartiality. That motion of our 
only Evelyn, “ that all the adjectives be struck out,” 
bore the stamp of genius. 

The Class Reporter wishes to thank Mr. L — for his 
contributions to the “ Legal Briefs ” of this number. 
Any communications from students of items suitable 
for the column will be received with pleasure. 

Mr. Hanson, B.A., was elected as the delegate 
of the students to Quebec, to represent the interests 
of the Faculiy in the discussion upon the bill now 
before the Legislature regarding the admission to the 
practice of Law, 

Important— Next number will contain a thrilling 
epic poem of 7<X)oJines,by Mr. Hugh S— mp — e, B.A. 
Everybody should read it, 

* 



ARTS NOTES. 

Some of the Reporters for the Fortnightly 
may be surprised and perhaps disappointed to find 
that their “ ( Notes” have not been given in full in this 
or in former numbers. 

A word or two in explanation ! While it may be 
somewhat interesting for a few in each Year to have 
their Reporter use his wit or his sarcasm on other 
Years or other Faculties, a very little consideration 
must lead them to see that such matter is not of gen- 
eral interest and of no real benefit to anyone, while, on 
the other hand, there must always be some who are 
placed in such a position that they will “fail to see 
the joke.” 

If at any time abuses arise which demand investi- 
gation, the columns of the FORTNIGHTLY are open 
for th it purpose ; but it should scarcely be called on 
to originate anything of that kind, in order to occupy 
space with an investigation. 

This may be giving more prominence than is neces 
sary to a trifling matter ; but if it should be the means 
of raising still higher the standard of the Class Notes, 
its object will be fully accomplished. 



Fourth Year. 

McM was unfortunate enough to forget to put 

on his gown before entering one of the Dean’s classes 
and was saluted with the order “ Go out ! Go out ! 
This lecture is not open to the public. Strangers 
are not allowed in here !” He tried to remonstrate, 
but that stern voice again bade him depart. He 
went, and returned wearing the livery of the estab- 
lishment, and naively remarking ; “ I came unto 

him as a stranger, and he took me not in.” 



(In the Chemical Laboratory). 

Student . — “ Mr. E. — , is there any tin in brass ?” 
Lecturer. — “Yes, lots of it, — that is to say, there’s 
money in impudence.’*' 



We will not give the name of the young man who 
asked if the rock “ Grit” was a Liberal. 



By the way, we hear that a Year man, who 

attended St. James’ Church on Thanksgiving night, 
wanted to know “ who wrote that farmer’s mass, 
in ‘ B’ flat ? ” 



The Graduating Class has added its highest honor 
to the many it has already showered on the worthy 
shoulders of Mr. J. C. Robertson, by appointing him 
Valedictorian. 



90 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Third Year. 

Who are these with smiles appearing, 
Little children blithe and gay, 
Scamp’iing o’er our glossy campus, 
Happy as the livelong day ? 

1 hese, dear friends, are not mere infants, 
1 ho’ they seem so as they pass ; 

Don t let size and age deceive you, 

1 hey’re the partial history class /// 



Arts ’97 rejoices to hear that the ‘ naughty’ pun in 
the last issue did not originate from their reporter. 

Only Sophomores and Freshmen indulge in puns. 

“Coming events cast their shadows before.” Well, 
let us hope that the questions in the Xmas Mechanics 
Examination will not be as shadowy as those of the 
test-paper on Friday week were. 



Pi ofcssor. “ 1 here is no such thing as telepathic 
communication.” 

Ah ill r. But, sir, haven’t you ever been with 
a person — not conversing at all— and yet enjoying 
yourself immensely ? ” 



Second Year. 

We are sure that there is enough esprit de corps in 
’98 to see fair play, and not to allow good nature to be 
imposed upon. We hope that in the few remaining 
lectures in Greek, our conduct may be more becoming 
and more respectful than upon one or two recent occa- 
sions. 



The Professor of Classics has found that the capa- 
bilities of ’98 are far beyond those of any previous 
Soph, year ; — in fact, the present material is so promis- 
ing that for the examination in “ Prose” he has given 
twenty chapters of Livy instead of six — the number 
given to ’97. 



A large number of our men visited their homes 
during the Thanksgiving vacation, and the other mem- 
bers of the \ ear, out of consideration for their class- 
mates, refrained from attending lectures. 

The depth (several inches below the platform) of 
Mr. Moore’s voice and the richness of his brogue gatfe 
fitting expression to the instructions of our versatile 
Clerk of Court at the recent “ Trial.” 



There is an argument going on in the Modern His- 
tory class as to who looks most like Napoleon. 

Student . — “ Je voudrais etre medecin chez les Alle- 
mands.” 

French Professor “ II vous faut e'tudier la science 
veterinaire.” 



IN THE UPPER HALL. 

There stand those ranks that sway an 1 cringe, 
Then break and fall in heaps, 

As down on them from DPs syringe 
The COOL cool water leaps. 

Good Hamilton from Scotia’s land 
Seizes the culprit’s gown, 

And by the strength of his right hand 
He throws the villain down. 

A note is brought to Dr. D. 

From our most august Dean, 

And D — f. who turns as pale as clay 
Just stops a frightened scream. 

But reassured by kindly word 
The pallor leaves his brow. 

Again his tuneful voice is heard 
(A half tone off, I trow.) 



First Year. 

In Chemistry Room. 

Student . — “ Sir, can Na. take the place of the 
replaceable Hydrogen in an acid ? ” 

Professor. — “Why, certainly! You might have 
said any (Na.) metal.” 



The annual compulsory bathing season is now over. 
What next ? 



We are glad to know from one of the Professors 
that there is vague possibility of the redemption of 
the Theologs. We ask what is to become of Arts 
and Science. 



We have enjoyed very much our recent study of 
the Inferno. One of the students informs us he has 
seen a volume of “ Hell up to date,” and it compares 
favorably with Dante’s great work. 



We are glad to have Messrs. Skinner and Brown 
back again in good health. 



Why do the First Year men not turnup better on 
Friday evenings at Literary Society ? A word to the 
wise, etc. 



Student (discouraged).—" I can’t make this fuse.” 
Prof. — “ There is no such word as ‘ cant.’ ” 
Student (desperate).— “ But there’s a word 
‘ imfusible,’ which means ‘ can’t be fused.” 



Prof — “ The hydra, gentlemen, reproduce by 
fishing. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



9i 



Prof. — 1 ' Homer was a splendid examp’e of eu- 
phony. There was a roll in his verses unequalled by 
modern poets.” 

McM r. — “ But, sir, we generally lose the roll 

of Homer by ‘ rocking it ’ in a crib." 



FEATHERS FROM THE EAST WING. 

In a few days we shall separate for the holidays. 
Some of our number go home jubilant, in the fact 
that, for the first time in their college experience, 
they are permitted to escape those searchings of 
brain by ruthless examiners which always cast a grim 
shadow over the festive season. But the many who 
remain to face the printed sheet of interrogation have, 
we know, the full sympathy and good wishes of their 
more fortunate class-mates. Perhaps not so very 
fortunate, however; for Christmas examinations have 
often revealed the weak spots in our work and saved 
us from disaster in the Spring. So let there be no 
envious glances cast after the retreating figures of 
these early flitters, but go to your work, and success 
to you ! 

And now, examinees and non-examinees, — it 
matters not which, — farewell for a few weeks! We 
wish you all most happy holidays. 

We were very pleased to learn that the Ottawa 
Valley Graduates Society has recently given Miss 
McGill, of the First Year, a prize of $50. Miss McGill 
passed first of those from the Ottawa Valley who 
tried the June matriculation examinations. 

Third Year. 

The test-questions in Mathematics were delightful. 
We would not wish to appear at all conceited, but a 
mild self-appreciation is quite in keeping with 
modesty. The voluminous and neat papers given in 
testified to a clear comprehension of the subject on 
the part of the majority of the class. The diversity 
of methods employed to obtain the desired results 
speaks strongly for the independent thinking and 
originality of the class. It is rumored that the 
papers are to be framed and hung in the Physics 
building. 



Second Year. 

That we are sometimes driven to extremes in 
collecting reports may be judged from the following 
excited whisper, which she, who is painfully translat- 
ing, hears from behind her: “Do , please, make some 
sort of a mistake. I have to send in my notes to 
the Fortnightly this morning, and I haven’t a 
single thing yet ! ’ 



Those who are toiling along the flowery path of 
knowledge wish that there might be a parliament of 
botanists to consider the advisability of giving non- 
heathenish names to plants, and of abolishing nine- 
tenths of their terms and substituting a few good old 
English ones. 



First Year. 

French Prof . — “Une petite goutte est une goutte- 
lette; une petite fille, une fillette.” 

Donalda — “Etun petit homme— une (h) omellette.” 

There appears to be a very pugilistic young lady in 
the First Year, for on being asked in class whether 
she should use the open or closed hand in striking, 
replied that she believed both should be used. 

Donalda ’99 almost regret that the skylight in their 
class room has been repaired, for they fancied the 
gentle showers, which descended thence upon them, 
were aiding their growth in wisdom and understand- 
ing. 



SCIENCE JOTTINGS. 

That there is more, than one way of looking at 
the same incident is shown by the reports, published 
below, of Monday’s “ scrap.” The Fourth Year have 
their way of looking at the same incident, "lhe 
Faculty looks at it from still another point of view. 

Some of the Seniors are trying to find the exact 
value of expressions like “as long as a piece of string,” 
“ as heavy as a lump of chalk,” “ as high as the sky,” 
“ as short as the Xmas holidays.” 



At the sale of the reading room Magazines, bidding 
was spirited and good prices realized. 

President Walkem is to represent McGill at the 
annual dinner of the “School of Science,” Toronto, 
this week. 

F. W. Maclennan, ’98, is the Science representative 
on the committee of the “ McGill Skating Club.” 



Is this a sign of anything in particular ? For some 
time back a number of the Seniors have been noticed 
devouring all the love stories contained in the maga 
zines in the Reading Room. 

If the Donaldas of 1900 object to being called 
“ naughty girls,” the Science Freshmen of the same 
Year object as strongly against being dubbed 
“ double ciphers.” 



92 



McGill fortnightly, 



While testing some hose for the city fire depart 
ment last week, the hose burst, the water spouted, and 

Prof. B y got it, as he said, — “ Where the chicken 

got the axe.” 



If the students would always refer to the members 
of the Faculty as Profs, when speaking to one another, 
there would be no fear of getting into such a predica- 
ment as C and J got themselves into one 

day last week. 

After their experience on Thanksgiving Day, the 
Freshies are not likely to join the Seniors in any of 
the pastimes of the latter, which always have been 
sacred to the Seniors and the drawing-room. 

What was it that W k m said to W b 

In terms of congratulation. 

That drew such a smile from Prof. C — r — le 
While the boys fled in consternation, 

Jack says it is a “mean, low trick to give three 
apatites after breakfast.” 



“ Well, boys, we can lay back on our oars now that 
we have determined all these minerals.” 

“ But there are no ores among them.” 

Voice from next seat : “Well, pass them o’er to 

„ , _ >> 

me. 



We never hear anything about the Union Club 
House now-a-days. Start it again, somebody. 

“ Tis a queer woman that never asks a question,” 
said the sage ; “ but the one that does is the querist , ’’ 
said the funny man. 



Prof . — “To work out this question doesn’t require 
even common sense.” (one minute later) “ Please cor- 
rect the answer in the book .” 



One on S — e. — “I don’t see how you found the 
maximum bending moment, sir.” 

Prof. “ Oh, we didn’t get it yet.” (Dazed look on 
the faces of men who have just awaked.) 



At Theory of Structures. — The horrors become 
more horrible. The other day, one member of the 
class kicked the bucket before the Professor’s very 
eyes. And we see many things that are not as they 
should be ; the children should be sent to the tradi- 
tional “ Science kindergarten,” or should at least 
have a copy or two of “ Chatterbox ” and a few rat- 
tles. 



. It seemed like the good old times to have such a 



glorious rush once more; and we did it up brown too. 
As the P'reshies picked themselves and the remnants 
of their books and gowns off the hard polished floor, 
they were heard to remark that “ ’97 does’nt scrap 
the same as the Second Year.” We guess they don’t. 

But now is the time that the Faculty gets in its fine 
work ; and, by the way, what is glass really worth in 
our building, anyway ? The following has been handed 
to us as a probable solution : 

Sc. ’97 Dr. 

To H. T. B., Esq. 



Dec. 


I 


To two panes glass 


$40 


00 




I 


“ one good old-fashioned scrap 


5 


00 








$45 


00 



We are sorry that Mr. C. D. Simpson of ’97 has 
left us. He has gone to Lethbridge in the far North- 
west, where his father has the management of a mine. 

1 

Visitor (to Mr. G , who is just entering the 

Elevator). — “ Are you the janitor ? ” (Deep silence 
broken by the banging of the elevator door.) 

The Juniors ran up against something heavy and 
hard the other day, in the shape of some Freshmen 
who were reading the Faculty notices. Why ’97 so 
risked their lives is not known ; but they have one 
and all come to the conclusion that they were “ very 
easy, and will not try it again. The Freshmen ran 
up and down the passage several times, seizing the 
Juniors who had not fled after the first rush, and toss- 
ing them into the air. A few were lifted through 
the glass of the notice board, for which we are told 
we shall pay one dollar per man (net). There was 
some talk among the survivers of ’97 of doing us 
the next day ; but after waiting for some time for 
their terrible (?) onrush, we were convinced that ’97 
is better at barking than at bitin ? 

We would advise ’97 to watch our ways, and there- 
by mend their own- 

We have been told from good authority that the 
fine is to pay the Juniors’ doctor’s bill. 



Third Year. 

For one of our number, we prophesy such an end 
as this : 

Surrounded by his family, li£ lies dying. With 
his remaining strength so as to assume his one-time 
gaiety, with his dying breath, he exclaims— 

You never saw me in a passion { don’t get me into 
one. 



Through some mistake in the list of Records, 



McGill fortnightly. 



93 



St-v-!’s name was omitted for the mile. His time 
was 62 seconds. Honi soit ! 



Call on Tr-v-s and get him to tell a story. Oh ! 



Scene. — A certain lecture room. 
Prof . — “ ’em, to recapitulate ” — 
Grand fainting act by students. 



We find that, as a rule, 

d (soap) < 2 (each one’s needs). 

We are open to congratulations, for has it not been 
said of us “ we are showing signs of reviving interest ” 



Since 



RW 

L 



What answer do we get when we put this in the 
form 

= R We 
^ Loaded 



The articles have been signed, and two of our num- 
ber will shortly expectorate for the championship of 
the Third Year. 

We have put our money on P-r-d-s. 



referred to the earnestness with which the men were 
engaging in their work, and the spirit of goodwill 
existing in the Faculty. Such a consideration of 
affairs cannot fail to be a source of gratification to 
one who lias devoted his time and energies for thirty 
years or more to the elevation and advancement of 
Veterinary Science. 

Dr. Clins. H. Zink, jr., 'ate Inspector at the Stock 
Yards, Chicago, 111 ., has resigned and gone to Denver, 
Col , to practice. He has the best wishes of a host of 
friends. 



Mr. E. C. Thurston is holding “quiz classes” in 
Materia Medica and Therapeutics, which are well 
attended. 

Messrs. Harri Dell and J. Anderson Ness have 
been appointed assistant demonstrators of Anatomy. 



Owing to his departure for the Northwest, the Dean 
gave a lecture on Thanksgiving morning, but let the 
boys out in time for church. 

Mr. Harri Dell’s grinds in Physiology, for the 
First Year men, are highly appreciated. 



Midnight in the Machine Shop. 

The shaper and planer in conversation. 

P.— “ Well, what of to-day ?” 

5 . — “ Nothing much. I cut that Surf S. Plate this 
afternoon, and then that fellow Th-ms-11 did his 
best to get him square with me.” 

P . — “ For my part, I got even with St-v-b You 
know he has been sitting on me a lot lately, so to-day 
I broke a 10 inch scale that he had in his hand.” 

S. — “Yes, I saw you do it. By the bye, don’t you 
think that Miss Belt was too tightly laced to-day?” 
P, — “I do, and I called Pulley’s attention, but he 
was going so fast that he couldn’t stop.” 

S . — “ I guess I shall say good night, as I have some 
work to do in the morning.” 

P . — “ Good-night.” 

We mechanicals are a hard worked lot. 



Echo answers “ Roll o-ver.” 



Whisper, — “ Did you spin the plate? ” 



COMPARATIVE MEDICINE CLASS 
REPORTS. 

Dean McEachran has gone to the Northwest on 
an important business mission. lLiore leaving, he 



Dissecting is now in full swing, and we are pleased 
to see our worthy Faculty Editor take such a promi- 
nent part in the demonstrations. 



Prof, (in calling the roll). — “ Pyfic, Py- - Pysic, is 
there anyone here by that name ?” 

Student. — “ Yes, sir.” 

Prof. — “ How do you spell it ?” 

Student. — “ Pf — k.” 

Prof. — u Are you here ? ” 

Student. — “Yes, sir.” (Laughter). 



MEDICAL NOTES. 

If the girl at Central has no more respect for Cook 
in the future than she has had in the past, he will 
ere long rise in his wrath and have her ignominiously 
discharged. 

Scene. — Cook’s Palace. The mighty king on his 
throne, the versatile page at the telephone. 

Page. — “ Hullo ! Central ! Give us the Rial Vic- 
tor-i-a ! ” 

Central. — “The line is busy !” 

Page.— “ Well, hurry up ; Mr. Cook is a waitin’ fur 
it.” fand he waited). 

Now, what we want to know is, what right the line 
has to be busy when Mr. Cook wants it ? 



94 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Fourth Year Notes. 

Dr. Nicholls’ paper on “ Electricity as applied to 
Medicine,” delivered at the meeting of the Medical 
Society on Saturday, Dec. ist, was much appreciated 
by the Fourth Year men present. For a clear and 
concise account of that abstruse and hitherto very 
ill-understood subject it could not be surpassed. We 
hope it will be published in pamphlet form. A very 
hearty vote of thanks was tendered to Dr. Nicholls 
at the close of the meeting. 

How long is “ a day or two,” hygienically speaking ? 

As we watched the progressive diminueudo of R — ’s 
hair, we began to fear that the theory of the conserva- 
tion of energy wa 3 not universally true. But as we 
note the shadowy line that has recently appeared on 
his upper lip, our confidence is restored, and we realize 
that it is only a transformation of force, we mean of 
hair, a sort of metastasis, to speak professionally- 

A Freshman wants to know whether long Church 
should be called church steeple or High Church , and 
also whether a Church-hill is a mound in a church- 
yard. 



We would like to know who is responsible for the 
Lovelly way the FORTNIGHTLY is delivered at the 
Medical building. 



if they didn’t at once put up. Then, again, they 
might render us fit subjects for Cook’s boys, or they 
might be put to extremes and drive us off with “ Call 
again” or “ No funds.” So we think it better for the 
Board to render its own accounts ; it has nothing to 
fear, and we are not quite prepared for the wdrst. 



At an impromptu concert the other morning, Jerry 
sang “ Way up on the Mountain top ” with varia- 
tions, in his own characteristic style. He was visibly 
affected. When an encore was demanded, he favored 
us with “ Hark ! I hear an angel speak.” 

Among the other selections, Robertson’s rendering 
of “Tales of McNally” was heartily appreciated. 
The latter, being so overcome, retired precipitately. 

Horace, of Ottawa, suggests that Science work up 
Mathematics. He says they really don’t know how 
to multiply by division ! 



Edgar would like the boys to pay more attention 
to the clinics ! 



First Year Reports. 

Mr. Shore and Mr. McKeehm’s have been elected 
as representatives of ’99 for the Reading Room Com- 
mittee. 



Mr. F. L. Thompson and Mr. C. B. Moles are our 
delegates to Toronto and Trinity Medical Dinners. 
They are good men both at dinners and speeches, 
and will be a credit to McGill— especially after a good 
dinner. 



Prof. (After reading a prescription of C— ’s).— 
“ Hem ! The Latin word for glycerine does not bear 
such a stricking resemblance to glycyrrhiza as you 
would have us believe.” 



Now that the session is in full swing, Third Year 
students will be wanting an Osier on “ Practice of 
Medicine.” They can secure the same from Jack 
Tees of the Fourth Year. 



Third Year. 

The Business Board has kindly afforded us an 
opportunity to meet the professors. 

It is to be hoped that the Board is not serious when 
it demands us to dun our lecturers for subscriptions 
for the Fortnightly. We certainly feel honored, 
but the privilege is really too great. 

The environments might lead to complicates, for 
we might be even tempted to “ turn th rascals out ” 



We are sorry that Mr. Harris is unable to continue 
his studies this year. Mr. Harris will be missed 
both as class reporter and on Sports Day, as he was 
one of our most promisin \ athletes. 

Prof. IV.— ‘ Why is the oosterior crucial ligament 
of the knee joint like the Firs Year ? ” 

Fresh . — “ Because it does not slope.” 

The boys who attended the last meeting of the 
Medical Society were very much enthused over the 
cordial reception tendered them. Can not more of 
us turn out next time ? 



\ es, 99, it is too bad that the Sophomores have 
given us no opportunity to develop our pushing 
abilities. 

One of our elder brethren, a “ ninety-sevener,” 
seems to feel badly over the fact that the accustomed 
cordiality has not been shown us. Does it not speak 
volumes for the Freshmen of ’95 ? 



The Medsof ’98 have too much natural courtesy 
to allow ancient customs to force them into actions 
ill befitting gentlemen. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



95 



ATHLETICS. 

RUGBY FOOT-BALL. 

LAW vs. ARTS. 

(20th October.) 

The great match that has been so often postponed — 
Law vs. Arts — was played on Wednesday afternoon before 
a large and appreciative crowd of spectators. The Lega 1 
luminaries were the victors after a hard, exciting and 
“ windy ” match, the final score being 5 to 4. The Law men 
at the commencement of the game showed marked signs of 
being overtrained, and this accounted for the looseness of 
their play during the first fifteen minutes. But it was in the 
second hal f where the vast superiority of the combination 
work of Law was displayed. The Legal Lights deserve 
much credit for the way in which they had trained for the 
match, — in fact, it was well known in Legal circles that 
many of the men had been taking “ special tonics,” the 
same having been taken three times a day for the last two 
weeks — to improve their wind. Law was short the ser- 
vices of two of her best men, Captain Donahue and Boyd. 
Arts also missed the help of such a man as McMaster, 
alihough it is doubtful whether even he would have been 
able to prevent the Law scrimmage from “ heeling ” 
the ball out almost every time. Mr. Chas Gaudet captained 
the Law team in a most masterly way, and had his men 
under wonderful control. Mr. Todd was the captain of 
the Arts team. Mr. H. Trenholme was the umpire, and 
gave general satisfaction. 

Seldom has a match created more excitement amongst 
the Legal profession, many of the Law offices in the city 
being closed, so as to allow their inmates a chance to see 
this all-important struggle of the giants. 

For Arts, the Tienholme brothers, Burton, Patch and 
Todd, at times, played excellently, ’.and strove valiantly to 
stave off defeat. Gaudet and Montgomery were the stars of 
the Law team. The Law scrimmage, however, deserves 
particular mention for its fine formation, as also for its ra- 
pility and sureness in getting the ball back to the quarter- 
back. 

Bond was spasmodically beautiful, and Cook’s linguistic 
powers showed up to advantage. Bat ii was the Law full- 
back who was the attraction of the whole field, his drop 
kicks and punts being nothing short of marvellous. 

It is to be regretted that “Arts ” gave up the struggle 
five minutes before time was up, although there is little 
doubt that the result of the match would have been the 
same. 

The names of the victors and their positions were as fol- 
lows : 

Full-back Duclos ; half-backs, Aylmer, Gaudet and Dona- 
hue ; quarter-back, Montgomery ; scrimmage, Armstrong, 
Sinn and Hickson; wings, Cook, Biekerdike, Semple, 
Hingston, Hanson, Bond and Burnet. 

McGILL FOOTBALL CLUB. 

One of the best attended and most enthusiastic 



meetings that the Club has ever had was the Annual 
General Meeting of this year. There were nearly one 
hundred and thirty present, all the Faculties being 
represented. The Secretary’s report showed that 
the Club had had a very successful season. 1 he 
report of the Treasurer showed a balance in hand of 
about $17.00, without certain moneys which were still 
due to the Club. 

After these reports had been adopted, the election 
of officers for the ensuing year was proceeded with, 
and the following were elected : 

Hon. Pres. — Dr. Peterson, LL. D. 

Hon. Treas. — Dr. Gunn. 

President . — L. E. W. Irving. 

Vice-Pres. — G. Drinkwater. 

Capt. of 1 st XV.— H. J. Schwartz. 

Secretary.— C. P. Howard. 

Treasurer.— N. Grace. 

Capt. 2nd XV.— S. Davidson. 

Capt ird XV.— H. Burton. 

Committee. 

Medicine . — Whitton and Levecque. 

Arts . — McMaster and Skinner. 

Science . — McLea and Moore. 

Law . — Montgomery and Hickson. 

Vet. Sc . — Stevenson and Moore. 

The secretary then read some changes in the con- 
stitution of the Club, and these were ratified. 

As there was a substantial balance in the treasury, 
a motion was passed, to the effect that caps should 
be presented to the members of the 1st XV as a 
.slight token of appreciation for their woik during the 
past season. It was also unanimously decided that 
the Club should do all in its power to aid the concert 
which the Britannia F.B.C. was holding on Decem- 
ber 13th. 

The team greatly appreciated the gymnasium prac- 
tices, which were held two evenings a week during the 
seasoh. The work of Messrs. Gaudet and Tetreau, 
who attended nearly every practice, certainly told in 
favor of the team, and proved that a coaching com- 
mittee of non-playing members was really beneficial. 
Mr. Dunn accompanied the teams on their trips away 
from home, as manager, and his services were in- 
valuable in arranging their affairs. 



PHYSICAL CULTURE. 

{Mens saua in corporc sano.) 

As it is now universally acknowledged that the 
mind cannot be properly developed without the co- 
development of the body, the importance of having 
a gymnasium in connection with an institution for 



96 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



the development and training of the mind is obvious. 
The governing body of such an institution must of 
necessity be of the more highly developed type, and 
consequently aware of the importance of physical 
training. It is only logical then that this body 
should formulate rules for the physical development 
of the student in the same way that it formulates 
rules for his mental development. In some cases 
this is done, but in most cases it is comparatively 
neglected. The average student who enters our 
Canadian institutions of learning has been accus- 
tomed to more or less physical labor, and in most 
cases is ignorant of the rules of mental hygiene. On 
taking up a college course, the most natural thing for 
such a student to do is to devote the most of his time 
to his studies (if he be studious) and take very little 
exercise. The consequence is that the body falls 
into a state of inactivity, and disease naturally fol- 
lows. How often cases of this kind are brought to 
our notice! Year after year we hear of students 
who are compelled to abandon their studies on 
account of illness, the cause being in most cases due 
to the want of the proper amount of exercise. It is 
obvious that much of this would be avoided if there 
were rules to govern the student in this respect, and 
the natural conclusion that one arrives at is that 
physical culture should be an integral part of any 
course of mental development. 

Let us see how the student is physically cared for 
at McGill. One would naturally expect to find in 
connection with such a world-renowned university as 
McGill, a gymnasium situated on the College 
grounds, and provided with facilities for physical 
development, which are suited to the requirements of 
the individual ; also suitable baths and club-rooms 
in connection with it. Instead of this, the student 
finds the gymnasium remote from the College 
grounds, and is rather disappointed on visiting it. 
He finds the roof in a leaky condition, and the ven- 
tilation very poor. Ventilation is provided in the 
rear, and there is a continual odor from the adjoining 
stables. The floor is in harmony with the rest of 
the building, and its condition could be well described 
by one who has had the pleasure of having his toes 
cracked a few times. It is visited by the College 
officials once a year, and on that occasion the major- 
ity are conspicuous by their absence. The hours of 
instruction are from 5 to 6 p.m. three evenings dur- 
ing the week. Many of the students cannot make it 
convenient to attend the classes at that hour, espe- 
cially the students in the Faculty of Medicine, some 
of whom have a lecture at that time. The conse. 
quence is that the student is dissatisfied, and as he is 
not subject to any rules, he either gives up the 
notion of attending the gymnasium (if he has any), 
or else seeks a more comfortable place where he can 



exercise himself. Notwithstanding this, the classes 
are fairly large, and it is chiefly due to the efforts of 
the instructor, Dr. McKenzie, that they are as well 
attended as they are. Dr. McKenzie is very atten- 
tive, and is well liked by the students. He has lately 
introduced a system of training which seems to be a 
step in the right direction. By this system each 
student undergoes an examination on entering the 
gymnasium, and a course of training is prescribed 
according to his physical needs. What is now 
required is efficient means to carry out this system, 
and then to make it compulsory. Surely this matter 
is worthy of the consideration of some of the bene- 
factors of McGill. 

L. W. CRILL 

Set., ’96. 

EXCHANGES. 

In the second number of the Fortnightly there 
was a reference in this column to the Harvard Daily 
News , with quotations from some of its editorials. 

The opinion given at that time in regard to its 
high standard, although based on an examination of 
only a few copies, has been fully justified by the con- 
tents of the succeeding numbers- 

It was therefore a cause for some surprise and of 
sincere regret, when a few weeks ago we received the 
information, that owing to a series of unforeseen and 
unfortunate events of a financial nature, the News 
was obliged to suspend publication. 

The Harvard Daily Crimson , which we have since 
received in its stead, is in its own special sphere 
equally complete ; but as almost the whole of its 
space is devoted to a discussion of matters in con- 
nection with athletics and College societies, the two 
papers were by no means rivals. 

We can only express the strong hope that the 
business managers of the News will be enabled to so 
arrange its affairs that publication may be resumed 
at an early date. 

From somewhere in the vicinity of th^ Land of 
Evangeline, there comes to us the Acadia Athcnceum , 
or, — to be more definite and thus avoid the possible 
charge of ignorance in regard to the history and geo- 
graphy of the province down by the sea, — from Aca- 
dia University, Wolfville, Nova Scotia. 

Of course every student of McGill knows exactly 
where Wolfville is situated ! ! 

As our business is with the College paper, rather 
than with the College, we will only call the attention 
of the reader to the fact that Acadia University has 
a special reason for notice on our part, since she can 
justly place one of our own professors in the list of her 
most distinguished graduites. 

The Athenamm is a monthly Journal published by 
the students, and, judging from the number before us 
it is intended to be of equal interest to the undergo 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



97 



duates and graduates of the University. 

An address, delivered by Prof. Jones at the open- 
ing of the College in October, entitled “ Words as an 
Instrument of Mental Culture,” is well worthy of 
being preserved in a permanent form in its pages. 

After carefully reading the address, we confess to 
a feeling of inability to give any satisfactory synop- 
sis. No one part has any special claim, for it is good 
throughout, so we will content ourselves, and pro- 
bably gain the thanks of the author, by leaving it 
untouched, and promising to anyone who may be 
sufficiently interested to apply, the complete address 
as printed by the Athetuzum. 

We would also acknowledge the receipt in pam- 
phlet form of “ Truthfulness in Expression,” a lecture 
by A. C. Mounteer, R.E., of Knox College, etc. ; and 
“ The Manitoba School Question,” by F. C. Wade, 
Barrister-at-law, Winnipeg. Also the “ Calendar of 
Prince of Wales College and Normal School, P.E.I., 
for 1895-96,” containing, among other interesting 
information, a list of the students who graduated 
with “ Honors” in past years. 

It is scarcely necessary to add that this list con- 
tains many names familiar to the undergraduates of 
the different Faculties of McGill. 



READABLE PARAGRAPHS. 

An old Highland sergeant in one of the Scottish 
regiments was going his rounds one night to see that 
all the lights were out in the barrack-rootr s. Coming 
to a room where he thought he saw a light shining, 
he roared out : — 

“ Put oot that light there !” 

One of the men shouted back : — 

“ Nah, it’s the mune, sergeant.” 

Not hearing very well, the sergeant cried in 
return : — 

“I dinna care a tacket what it is ! Put it oot !” 



THEY STOPPED LAUGHING. 

It takes a woman to rebuke another woman’s rude- 
ness, a general statement well borne out by th e 
following story : 

A lady, says the N. Y. World , entered a railway 
train, and took a seat in front of a newly-married 
couple. She was hardly seated before they began 
making remarks about her. 

Her last year’s bonnet and cloak were fully criticized 
with more or less giggling on the bride’s part, and 
there is no telling what might have come next if the 



lady had not put a sudden stop to the conversation 
by a bit of strategy. 

She turned her head, noticed that the bride was 
considerably older than the groom, and in the 
smoothest of tones said : 

“Madam, will you please ask your son to close the 
window behind you ? ” 

The “ son ” closed his mouth, and the bride no longer 
giggled. 



EVIDENCE AGAINST HIM. 

“Why didn’t you have me called at 6 o’clock?” 
roared a commercial traveller in one of our city hotels, 
as he faced the clerk and banged his fist down on 
the register. 

“ I did,” calmly replied the clerk. 

“ You did not, sir.” 

“ I tell you I did.” 

“ You did not, sir, and I can prove it.” 

“ All right, go ahead ; but you can’t prove it.” 

“Yes, I can.” 

“ Prove it, then.” 

“Well, you did not have me called at 6 o’clock, 
because I did not leave word to be called at all,” 
and the commercial man grinned and looked for the 
clerk to blush and apologize. 

But he looked in vain. A little thing like that 
wouldn’t bother a hotel clerk. 



Aubrey Boucicault tells a story of H. J. Byron, 
the English dramatist, made famous principally by 
his work, “ Our Boys.” Mr. Byron was coming out 
late one night from the Savage Club, in London, 
when he was accosted by a sheriff’s officer, who asked 
in husky tones if there happened to be in the club at 
that moment a man with one eye by the name of 
Brown. Byron replied, musingly, “ I’m not sure ; 
what’s the name of his other eye ?” 



ONE WAY OF FINDING A SCOTSMAN. 

It is related of a successful Glasgow merchant that 
sightseeing in Paris once, he lost his way. For a 
considerable time he wandered about trying to get 
back to his hotel. The hours went by. He never 
could speak French, and his Glasgow English only 
brought a smile and a shake of the head. 

“ Oh, for a body wi’ a guid Scotch tongue in his 
head !” he sighed. 

Then came a “happy thought.” By signs he 
bought a basket, measure and berries of a trim French- 
woman, and, shouldering the stock, went along the 
street shouting : 



98 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



“ tine grossets, a bawbee the pint; fine grossets, a 
bawbee the pint.” 

The crowd laughed at the mad Briton, but the 
familiar cry soon brought some Scotsmen on the scene, 
and the merchant was able to retire from business 
and smoke his pipe in the bosom of his family 
thankful that he had found real Scotsmen in his hour 
of need. 



A WITTY COMPLIMENT. 

At the first performance of Dumas’ “ Etrangere,” 
everybody appeared to be so preoccupied and wore 
such a seiious countenance that Marshal Canrobert, 
who happened to be present, remarked it, and in- 
quired the reason. Mine. Brohan, it is recorded, 
answered : 

“ We are on the eve of a great battle, and I suppose 
fear affects us as you see.” 

“ Fear ? ” the marshal said, looking round with a 
puzzled air. 

Mme. Brohan immediately summoned an attendant, 
and briefly said, “ Picard, a dictionary for the 
marshal.” 

A neater or wittier compliment in fewer words it 
would be impossible to produce. 



Magistrate (to witness). — “ I understand that you 
overheard the quarrel between the defendant and his 
wife ? ” 

Witness. — “ Yis, sorr.” 

Magistrate. — “ Tell the court, if you can, what he 
seemed to be doing.” 

Witness. — “ He seemed to be doin’ the listenin’.” 



The dentist was torturing his victim in the usual 
double fashion. 

The story he was telling at that moment was on 
himself. 

“W hen I was young in the profession,” said he, 
, “ I was working in a country place for a few weeks 
to help a friend. One day a farmer came in — a big> 
muscular chap, full-blooded — one of the sort whose 
teeth come like the roots of oak trees. 

“ As he sat in the chair he asked, ‘ Will it hurt ?’ 

“ Feeling in rather a jocular mood, I answered, 
‘ Well, if it doesn’t it shan’t cost you anything.’ 
Then I fell to work. 

“ The tooth came even harder than I expected, so 
as the man got up from the chair and pulled himself 
together — he had not uttered a sound — 1 said, ‘ Well, 
did it hurt V 

“ ‘ Not a bit,’ answered the countryman, and strode 
out of the office, leaving me minus a fee, completely 
nonplussed, and the laughing stock of my friend and 
the two or three patrons who sat about the office. 

“ I have never tried to be funny professionally 
since,” said he, meditatively. 



THE 



Ontario Medical—^ 
College for Women, Ltd. 

TORONTO, Ont. 



13th. SESSION 1895 to 1896 



The master. — “ Well, Pat, a pint of porter wouldn’t 
be a bad thing, would it ? ” 

Pat. — “ Sure, yer ’anner, dere’s only wan betther 
ting I know of.” 

The master. — “ What’s that ? ” 

Pat. — “ A quart of de same shtufif ! ” 



^TUDENTS are prepared for the Examinations 
of all Canadian Licensing Boards, Universities, 
etc. . . .. 

FEES, $90 PER ANNUM 

Apply for Calendar to 

D. GIBB WISHART, 

Registrar 




PATERSON & FOSTER 

““sr Reichert's Microscopes 

Acknowledged to be the be^t line in the Dominion 

Used in the Bacteriological Laboratories of the ... STAINS and ACCESSORIES 

Royal Victoria and Montreal General Hospitals *' IN STOCK 



DISSECTING CASES, SKELETONS, SKULLS, STETHOSCOPES, THERMOMETERS, 

And all Students’ Requirements 



GET OUR QUOTATIONS 




21 Phillips Square, MONTREAL 



