Vot. IX. 



ATo. 3. 



McGILL 

UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 

Wednesday , November 1 1 , 1885 . 



CONTENTS : 



PAGE. 

Editorials - - 3-5 

Poetry ------ 5 

Contributions 6-7 

Every Fortnight - 7-8 

McGill News 8-9 

Societies 9-10 





PAGE* 


Sporting - 


10-11 


Personals 


11-12 


Between the Lectures 


12-13 


College World - 


13 


Correspondence 


13-14 


Advertisements 


2, 15, 16 



MONTREAL : 

PRINTED BY THE BURLAND LITHOGRAPHIC COMPANY. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



GreensMelds, McCorkill. Guerin & Greenshields. 

ADVOCATES, 

jtarmters, JUJorttap, jloKtiiors, fo., 

Chambers : Exchange Bank Building, 

1724 NOTRE DAME STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

J. N. Greenshields. J. C. McCorkill, Edmond Guerin, R, A. E. Greenshields. 

Robertson, Ritclie, Fleet k Falconer, 

ADVOCATES, 

151 St. James Street, 

MQSTTREAJU- 



ATWATER & CROSS, 

•pVoeaU^, |jafriSer(i, (^oinni iSSionerS, fe., 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING. 

151 ST. JAMES STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

MACMASTER, HUTCHINSON & WEIR, 

ADVOCATES, 

garmim, jlolidtors, Sc t., 

175 ST. JAMES STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

DONALD MACMASTER, Q.C. R. S. WEIR, B.C.L. 

M. HUTCHINSON, B.C.L. F. $. McLENNAN, B.C.L, 

A. PERIARI), 

Law Bookseller, Publisher, Importer 

And Legal Stationer, 

23 ST. JAMES STREET, 

(near the court housb.) 

TvTOIN'TIR.IE.A.Ij. 




I. B. DUROCHER, Proprietor. 

Jacques Cartier Square, opp, Court House & City Hall, 



MONTREAL. 

THE ABOVE HOTEL is tie BEST IN THE CIT7 for MeOILL COLLEGE BINNEB3. 



HEADQUARTERS 



—FOR— 




DRYSDALE’S 



232 ST. CT-A-HVEIES ST. 



MEBICJ1L WORKS, BOOKS USER IJY ART COURSE, 
SCIEJVCE TEXT BOOKS , 

THE WiRIOUS 'M HEOL O GI CJIL BOOKS . 

Full assortment in stock & supplied at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books, Sec., See., 
-•-KBIEST -V^XjTJE I35T TOWDTi^ 

Stylo graphic Pens , Anti-Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty . 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

232 St. Tetrrres Street, 

ALSO 

Branch Store: 1423 St. Catherine St. 

BUY Y-OTTIR, 

Boots and Shoes, 

RUBBERS, OVERSHOES & MOCCASINS 

A. M. F E AT H E RSTOISTS 

Shoe Stores. 



UP TOWN : QUEEN'S HALL BLOCK, 

1331 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 

JOHN HENDERSON & CO., 

Hatters Furriers, 

1577 Jfcire Dame Jr. 



ETO GOATS, CAPS and GAUNTLETS, 

Extra Quality Goods at Lowest Cash Prices. 

The “ McGILL ” Ribbon loi* Sale. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Vol. IX.] McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, NOVEMBER 11th, 1885. [No. 3. 



Jlc§iff Unireusitij Dajette 



DIRECTORS. 

Jeffrey H. Burland, B. Ap. Sc., F.C.S., President. 
Edgar De F. Holden, Vice-President. 

Geo. C. Wright, B.A., Sec.-Treas. 

COMMITTEE. 

Geo. C. Stephen, 

W. A. Carlyle, Science ’87. 

Fred. W. Hibbard, Arts ’86. 

E. P. Williams, Med. ’87. 

i 

EDITORS. 

A. H. Urquhart Colquhoun, B.A., Editor-in- Chief. 
J. Ralph Murray, B.A., Law ’86. 

Colin H. Livingstone, Arts ’86. 

Raleigh J. Elliot, Law ’86. 

Arthur Weir, Science ’86. 

Ed. Evans, Med. ’87. 

C. Percy Brown, Science ’86. 

W. Inglis Bradley, B.A. 

The University Gazette will be published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which 
rule no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

All communications may be addressed to the Editors, P. 0. 

Box 1290. 



Editorials. 



A MODEST BEGINNING. 

For the. last three years the position of the Univer- 
sity Gazette has been steadily improving, and we are 
glad to he able to state that the prospects for the 
present year are so good that the directors have felt 
justified in obtaining for the use of the editors a small 
room in Phillips Square. This will be a great con- 
venience to us, as we shall no longer be obliged to 
trudge up to the College on committee nights, and 
besides we shall not have our spirits dampened by the 
dark, empty halls. But the advantage and comfort 
which we hope to obtain ourselves formed but one of 
the reasons why we urged the directors to take this 
step. It was suggested, and the suggestion approved 
of by some of our friends, that this opportunity might 
be taken to form the nucleus of a University Club, and 
it was on this account principally that the room was 



procured. We are convinced that under the particular 
circumstances in which our University finds itself, this 
is the only way in which the project of a university 
club can be carried out. Our beginning is a very 
modest one, but we feel confident that after a time — it 
may be a great many years — our unambitious effort 
will have produced results greater . perhaps than 
any of our readers would now believe. The room which 
we have taken is a very small one and rather scantily 
furnished at present, but we invite any graduates or 
undergraduates who would like to make use of it to 
do so. The only attraction which we can offer as yet 
is moderately good company, but we feel certain that 
some of the younger men at all events will consider 
this sufficient. We shall only charge a nominal fee 
of admittance, and that payable monthly. Some of 
our older graduates who may not themselves feel in- 
clined to join us would help us greatly by sending any 
little donations which [it may be in their power to 
make, such as periodicals, papers, books, and the like. 
We have already been presented by kind friends with 
a chess board and men, and a pack of cards. All 
donations should be sent to us directed either to P. 0. 
Box 1290, or 13 Phillips Square. The room will be 
reserved for the exclusive use of the editors on every 
alternate Wednesday evening, but at all other times 
it will be free to members. As the perusal of our ex- 
changes may not be uninteresting to some we shall 
leave them constantly on fyle. Those desirous of aiding 
us in our undertaking or of showing their appreciation 
of our efforts will best do so by giving us the practical 
help we have indicated. Those who are disposed to 
be scornful we merely ask to leave us alone. 



THE “ GAZETTE ” VINDICATED. 

The elections for officers in the University Literary 
Society have resulted as we hoped, and every candi- 
date whose appointment was advocated in the Gazette 
has been chosen. 

This is a signal triumph for the University journal. 

It is sufficient proof that the opinions of the 
Gazette, when based on justice and common sense, 
will weigh with those members of the University who 
regard this paper as the best friend of their interests, 
and who will henceforward feel confident that the 
surest means of effecting proposed reforms is to secure 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. [1885. 



its support and countenance. It is conclusive reply 
to dubious-minded and hitherto unconvinced indi- 
viduals prone to believe that united action on the part 
of McGill graduates was an impossibility, or that the 
Gazette was not in any way concerned in bringing about 
a better state of things. The members selected for the 
offices in the University Literary Society were not 
proposed on the spur of the moment, or from capri- 
cious motives. They were fixed on after calm delib- 
eration, because they had qualifications for the posi- 
tions, and to this important recommendation added 
the vital characteristic of willingness to do their duty 
by the Society. Small wonder that under such cir- 
cumstances the opposition to their election was weak 
and unsuccessful. When the Gazette, as in the 
present case, voices what it knows to be the intelli- 
gent and general opinion of its supporters, the outcome 
will undoubtedly be a complete vindication of the 
stand thus taken and the views thus expressed. There 
cannot be any defeat when a straightforward and well- 
advised course is pursued in all similar matters. 

The new officers of the Society can show by con- 
stant attendance at the meetings, by unremitting at- 
tention to all the duties that devolve upon them, ex- 
actly how much depends upon the management of the 
association, and how much upon the co-operation of the 
members. By the strictest regularity in arrangingthe 
business of the meetings, and the general conduct of 
the society, they can earn the reward which comes 
from conscientious service, and leave no excuse for the 
body of the members to stay away 'as inclination mis- 
leads them. 

More they cannot do. The fate of the society will 
in the future as in the past hang upon the action of 
the members as a whole. With them rests the obliga- 
tion of doing their share of a work voluntarily assumed, 
and therefore possessing claims to be properly per- 
formed, laying aside the fact of its valuable educative 
influence and the permanent benefits it bestows. San- 
guine hopes have been lately expressed that the Uni- 
versity Literary Society will last as long and do as 
good work as like organizations in Montreal. If this 
hope is to be realized the new officers will require to 
be aided by the loyal support of those who from 
various excuses, sometimes good, but most frequently 
bad, have weakened in their allegiance to the society. 
We intend in future to publish the names of all those 
who attend the meetings in order that it may be known 
who really are the friends of the Society. This may 
not be the last time the Gazette may put forth efforts 
to revive University organizations, and we now have 
good reasons for counting upon that help which has 
just effected a result so satisfactory. 



ENCOURAGEMENT AND DISCOURAGEMENT. 

It is pleasing to think that very few to whom the 
first number of the Gazette was sent containing the 
intimation that the copy might be returned if not de- 
sired, have responded to the notice. If the payment 
of one dollar a year is too much for the privilege of 
keeping up one’s connection with one’s T niversity, it 
is in order to ask whether persons who do not see their 
way to pay this sum have decided that the four or 
more years spent at college do not demand that they 
should take any further interest in the institution 
which gave them higher intellectual life. I he in- 
fluence, then, which stimulated their activities, formed 
for them friendships of priceless value, and introduced 
them to the brotherhood of educated men, is all for- 
gotten] The University’s progress, which the Gaz- 
ette is proud to chronicle, has become nothing to 
them. Or their loyalty is of that cheap order which 
contents itself with words. But we think better of 
McGill men than this, and rest content in the hope 
that those who decline to take the college paper, de- 
cline because even the small sum indicated cannot be 
spared. We respect their discretion, and frankly say 
that this is the only valid objection to be recognized. 

One gentleman, however, assigns a different reason, 
and one which the present editors fail to appreciate or 
even comprehend. He says that “ for obvious reasons 
he has ceased to become a subscriber, and the copy 
sent him is therefore returned.” We have no concern 
with the mysterious motives hinted at and are con- 
strained to imagine that the obstacle to his giving the 
same encouragement extended to the Gazette by the 
Principal of the University down to the youngest 
undergraduate may be a loftiness of mind, with con- 
sequent inability to aid so humble an enterprise as this. 
It is refreshing to turn to the sentiments of another 
graduate, who writes from a distant Province : “ Con- 
tinue to send me the Gazette, but to the above ad- 
dress.” Thank you ! Your brief note is as encourag- 
ing as the cold indifference of some nearer home is 
disheartening. However, we shall pursue our labors, 
inspired by the thought that our intentions are good, 
but feeling that 

’Tis not in mortals to command success, 

But we’ll do more ; we’ll deserve it- 



STUDENTS’ MEETINGS, 
lhe careless manner in which men are nominated 
lor office in the college classes and societies of McGill 
is an evil which has been steadily growing for some 
years. Students are chosen, primarily because they 
are conspicuous at the meetings when nominations are 
made, and then for any reason that calls attention to 



1885.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



5 



them at the moment. We don’t mean that the 
students now serving in different capacities are not 
qualified for the positions they hold. We cannot know 
this ; nor can any one until the session is over and the 
way in which they filled the offices is calmly reviewed. 
But what we do mean is that if they are the best men 
who could have been determined upon, it is partly 
accidental, and not the result of wise foresight on the 
part of their classmates. There is too much thought- 
less haste in making nominations, too little considera- 
tion beforehand of the men at disposal. Several will 
perhaps be proposed for an important office, and some 
will decline, and finally the lot will fall upon some 
one who values the position less because he knows 
that it has been refused by others. The class and 
other meetings at McGill are becoming notorious for 
this kind of thing, and it is now rather difficult to get 
the students together, so disgusted have they grown 
with the way valuable time is wasted in senseless 
nominations and pointless speeches. There is danger 
of the students falling into complete apathy about the 
carrying out of all undergraduate movements, and this 
should be avoided by the exercise of more wisdom in 
the matter to which we have referred. 



THE DINNER QUESTION. 

The time is not yet at hand for the yearly dinners, 
at least in Arts and Science, but there is no harm in 
giving the matter some consideration. What may be 
capable of improvement in this long-established cus- 
tom, or what may render its further maintenance un- 
desirable should be made known and discussed. That 
the holding of dinners has become firmly established is 
no valid reason why it should be continued, if the 
causes which instituted it are no longer in active op- 
eration. Because these annual dinners appeal to the 
conservative instincts of the students in upholding the 
institution bequeathed to them by their predecessors this 
cannot prevent the custom from lapsing, in our day of 
keen scrutiny into the merits of every enterprise ap- 
pealing for public support. For our part we believe 
that the annual dinners should be continued. They 
are an excellent method of drawing the students of 
different years together. There they meet on common 
ground, and the narrow distinctions obtaining within 
the college walls are dropped, or at any rate should be. 
We therefore say to the students, by all means hold 
your dinner this session, as usual, and do not be the 
first to set up barriers between the classes, which may 
result in serious injury to all your college movements. 
Much move can be said on this question, but it is not 
necessary to go deeply into it at present. But we 



would be glad to hear from our undergraduate readers 
their views, especially from those who oppose the idea. 



We congratulate the Governors on their recent 
choice of a Professor inf he Faculty of Applied Science. 
It is gratifying to know that a native-born Canadian 
and above all a graduate of McGill has been judged 
competent to fill this important position. We hope 
that the precedent established by this and the few 
other appointments of a like nature will, in future, be 
followed by the powers that be, as opportunity offers. 
Professor Chandler enters on his duties under the 
advantages of being already well-known and esteemed 
by the students, and we are sure all McGill men will 
join with us in wishing him every success as Professor 
of Practical Mathematics. 



Poetry. 



[for the gazette. 

FAME. 

We strive through life to sculpture deep 
Our names in every human heart 
That the forgetful world may keep 
Our memory green when we depart. 

Behold the schoolboy ! School dismissed 
He stops at every snowy wall 
To write his name with chubby fist, 

Oblivous both to book and ball. 

And lovers in the woodland shade 
Their secret to the trees confide 
And write their names with eager blade 
Deep in some noble elm’s side. 

That, when themselves have passed away. 

Their childrens’ children still may shew 
The intertwining names and say 
“ These two were lovers long ago.” 

Lo! read in some deserted cell 

The words with years of labor wrought. 

And every slimy stone will tell 
The lonely captives’ saddest thought. 

The thought is everywhere the same, 

One long, low, agonizing moan 
That he who might have wedded fame 
Must live forgotten, die unknown. 

The schoolboy, lover, captive, each 
Has bid for immortality. 

And brother, ere you smile and preach, 

Be sure you seek more worthily. 

Though fools and sages, young and old 
Alike, are striving for renown, 

’Tis those who bid with honest gold 
Alone can hope to win the crown. 

There are but few shall reach the goal, 

The tree shall die, the cell and wall 
Shall crumble down and Time shall roll 
Its sullen waters over all. 

Then, brother, bid with gold indeed ; 

Work to uplift the human race 
And all in after years will read 
Your epitaph in every face. 

• Attie. 



The shortest letter ever written consisted of a 
single letter. A French poet wrote to Piron, the 
dramatist: simply 4 Eo rus 1 (Latin for 4 1 am going 
into the country ’) Piron. not to be beaten in brevity, 
wrote back ‘ I ’ (‘ Go ’). — 



6 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1885 . 



Contributions. 



A WORD TO THEOLOGICAL STUDENTS. 

BY ONE OF THEM. 

In submitting some suggestions to my fellow theo- 
logical students, the only excuse lean offer is that the 
few jottings 1 shall make are from the note-book of 
my own experience during several years of college life. 
As I shall not attempt to say anything new, let no one 
be surprised if he find that the substance of this ar- 
ticle is already known to him. It is possible, however, 
that some have never looked in the direction in which 
these notes point, and of them I respectfully ask a 
hearing. 

When a student withdraws from ordinary life to 
spend several years in continual study, he enters a 
world of its own — the world of books, one which is 
removed from the larger outside world of labor, busi- 
ness and society. And because he is more or less iso- 
lated from its influences, he is in danger of getting out 
of sympathy with the larger outside world. The 
theological student is more liable to this tendency than 
the ordinary student, for the reason that he is the 
more completely isolated, for while the latter lives in 
private houses throughout the city, the former eats and 
sleeps within the walls of a college building. Now 1 
know that there are very great advantages in having a 
college residence, and we theological students are to be 
envied because we in Montreal are so well situated in 
that respect. Especially are those who have exper- 
ienced the old life of residence in private houses 
throughout the city, who have come into the city in 
miserable uncertainty as to where we were going to 
spend the winter, who have hunted up “ Booms to 
Let ” in the daily papers and have gone from house to 
house for hours, at last to settle down in what at best 
was a makeshift for a home, and at worst such a place 
as to make us long for spring and our mother’s house. 
These are the better able to appreciate the luxury of 
being settled in comfortable rooms, among congenial 
companions, waiting for the dinner-bell, in an hour 
after arriving at Bonaventure. Your humble servant, 
the writer, has experienced both these ways of life, 
and by much prefers the latter. At the same time, re- 
sidence in boarding houses has to us its advantages. A 
minister must, above all men, have a wide knowledge 
of human experience ; and there is more human ex- 
perience outside a college than within. Just as now 
the world is full of complaining landladies, and negli- 
gent servants and noisy children, so will it be when 
we are ministers ten or twenty years hence. Besides 
in a college residence many of the questions of com- 
mon life do not obtrude themselves disagreeably before 
our face. In college we have sufficient good fare, com- 
fortable rooms ; we are usually in good health and 
happy ; although few of us are rich and most are poor, 
yet none suffer want. But, on the contrary, the life 
of many a man is worried with disagreeable questions. 
What to eat and what to wear, is often a subject of 
debate ; how to make both ends meet is the hardest 
problem to be solved ; the account-book is more unat- 
tractive than a distasteful text-book ; rent day more 



dreaded than an examination, and louder than the 
noise of college songs rises continually the moaning 
cry of labor and misfortune and pain from weary 
struggling humanity. He is a wise man who in his 
comfortable seclusion remembers these things and 
keeps himself in sympathy with the men and women 
who experience them. 

Again, even our studies may be a source of weak- 
ness. While most men live in a world of action, we 
live in a world of thought. Although it is true that 
thought directs action and that our studies are intend- 
ed to°aid us in future work, yet we are in danger of 
getting out of sympathy with the world of action, for 
the reason that our studies — both literary and theo- 
logical — bear so indirectly upon actual life. 

Just for example, take the study of Apologetics It 
is true that at the present day when the Bible and 
Christianity are being tried in the crucible of scientific 
inquiry, we must know what are the enemies of and 
how to defend from them our precious faith. Yet let 
us remember that the average man cares little for the 
opinions of the critics of the Tubingen school, or the 
attitude of Huxley towards Christianity. He is beset 
by temptation ; day and night, at home, on the street, 
at his work, he feels a power pulling him down, and 
he reaches out for a power that will keep him from 
falling and lift him up to a nobler life. 

There are some subjects which have a special ten- 
dency to carry us away from actual life, such as his- 
torical theology. We trace the influence of Neo- 
Platonism on Christian doctrine, or attempt to elabo- 
rate Origen’s doctrine of the Trinity, and we do well, 
for these were dealing with eternal verities ; yet we 
must take excursions only into the distant centuries, 
we must not live there. Our world is the world of to- 
day. We are to help living men to meet real foes and 
solve present problems. 

Passing on to other matters, I have noticed that 
when some enter a theological college they associate 
only with theological students. If only for our own 
sake we should associate with other students — and for 
several reasons this is desirable. In the future we 
shall have in our congregation lawyers, doctors, me- 
chanics, editors. These are now students. If by as- 
sociating with them we get some idea of their senti- 
ments and manner of thinking, and get to know their 
point of view in looking at things, we shall be the bet- 
ter able to present our belief in a way that will com- 
mend itself to them. If, on the other hand, we are not 
en rapport with them now, there is little hope of get- 
ting en rapport with them in the future. Besides, all 
ol us have objectionable corners which ought to be 
rubbed off. Some public men are examples to us in 
this respect ; they can meet all kinds of men grace- 
iully, and keep their peculiarities in the background. 
Like a stone in a stream is worn smooth by unceasing 
attrition, so are our peculiarities rounded off by inter- 
course with other men. As intercourse with our own 
students will not take off' all our corners, we need to 
put ourselves where we can rub up against men of 
other classes. 

Just here may I be pardoned if I whisper in your 
ear what I remind myself of, that we are prone to fall 
into peculiar ministerial habits — a peculiar carriage of 



1885.] 



McGILL UNIVEESITY GAZETTE. 



7 



the body, a peculiar bow, a peculiar expression of the 
face, a peculiar intonation of the voice. We are better 
without these peculiarities. A minister should in 
manner be an educated Christian gentleman, that and 
nothing more. 

Let me strongly urge you to join a literary society, 
such as, if you are an undergraduate, the Under- 
graduate’s Literary Society. It is not good in devel- 
oping the complete man to always discuss subjects con- 
nected with our special work. We are to be citizens 
as well as preachers, therefore, talk politics ; as edu- 
cated men and educators, discuss education. Be- 
sides, to speak iu such debates as you may attend in 
McGill is the best of practice in speaking. We are apt 
to fall into a clerical style. This tendency is checked 
and stopped by speaking from a secular platform. 
When we preach there is nobody to answer back — at 
least no one does audibly — and one is apt to fall into 
a listless manner and argue carelessly. But to know 
that every sentence is being noted by an opponent 
gives a carefulness and pungency and naturalness to 
what you say. Let one who has never been sorry for 
many a Friday evening spent in No. 1 class-room, 
strongly advise you, undergraduate or partial student, 
to “ go and do likewise.” 

In the above remarks I have taken for granted two 
things, which every educated man is likely to endorse. 
First, that more good is received from college life than 
is obtained from the text-books ; second, that a minis- 
ter should be something more than a theological 
pedant. And if this talk has been one of the better 
influences to the good end my wish shall be realized. 

Jake. 



Euery Fortnight. 



The following version of “ Put a beggar on horse- 
back and he’ll ride to the devil ” is, I think, the best 
of the lot. 

VIII. 

*' The mendicant once from his indigence freed 
“ And mounted aloft on a generous steed, 

“ Down the precipice soon will infallibly go, 

“ And conclude his career in the regions below.” 

The first of the above reminds me of the time when 
my elder brother kindly volunteered to teach me how 
to catch birds. His plan however never seemed to 
work satisfactorily, and the coveted bipeds, fortunately 
for themselves, remained at large. I forget what the 
regular version of the third proverb is. Perhaps some 
one will kindly tell me. 

* * 

* 

The following which is a fair specimen of the length 
to which bad punning can be carried, is selected at 
random from a mountainous pile of communications 
received in connection with Mentor’s little lapsus 
plumce. My all-wise monitor will perceive that I have 
already broken my promise and relapsed into the use 
of Latin. This is the letter : — 

Dear Critic, 

That rash youth, Mentor, having, if you will permit the expres- 
sion, taken a back seat, having I might say repeated himself, it be- 
hoves one to be careful. But I only want to tell you that after a 
thoughtful study of his legend, I have come to the conclusion that it 
is the result of a nightmare, caused perhaps by a fit of indigestion, 
and like it, is unexplainable. I make nothing of it. The persons 
with whom I have conversed give it up, so “ Mentor” should note 
the parallel, and pay no more visits to secluded monasteries. He 
should eschew the “ medieval practice ” of palming off obscurity as 
hidden genius. His precipitate criticism of your orthography re- 
minds one of the hasty conduct of the estimable 

44 Miss Biddy Baxter 

“ Who refused the captain before her ax’t her.” 

Please forgive him'if he says he never meant ter , and promises not to 
do it again. 

Tor-Mentor. 

* 5k 
5k 



(Correspondents will please address “ Critic, P. 0. 
Box 1290.”) 

Last fortnight I promised to give one or two of the 
Pristine Proverbs for Precocious Pupils. As I said I 
am in ignorance of the author. They were sent to me 
many years ago by a dear friend, when I myself was a 
pupil — whether precocious or not I shall leave to the 
imagination of my readers. 

I. 

“ Observe yon plumed biped fine! 

“ To effect its captivation, 

•• Deposit particles saline 
“ Upon its termination.” 

II. 

44 Cryptogamous concretions never grow 
44 On mineral fragments that decline repose. 

Ill 

“ Decortications of the golden grain 
Are set to allure the aged fowl in vain.’ 

IV. 

“ Pecuniary agencies have force 

** To stimulate to speed the female horse.’ 

V. 

44 The earliest winged songster soonest sees 
44 And first appropriates the annelides.” 

VI. 

44 Bear not to yon famed city upon Tyne 
44 The carbonaceous products ot the mine. 

VII. 

44 It is permitted to the feline race 
“ To contemplate even a regal lace- 



Correspondents will be good enough to remember 
that this column is not meant as a receptacle for bad 
puns. 

* 

An esteemed contributor who signs herself “Iduna” 
sends me the following artistically-expressed thought : 

“ Whatever study you undertake do not look upon 
it in a superficial manner, but learn to search out the 
inner meaning. 

The true artist can tell if the amateur has copied 
only the tints in the surface of the picture, and knows 
if he has understood the colours which lie underneath. 
As the study of art teaches us to learn the truth with 
regard to pictures, so in all our pursuits after know- 
lege let our aim be to seek and honour the truth.” 



It has always seemed a pity to me that so few oppor- 
tunities exist for intercourse between McGill and 
Toronto University. The only occasion upon which 
the undergraduates of the two universities are brought 
in contact is that of the annual inter-university foot- 
ball match, and then only in a very slight way. I 
had hoped that when our Athletic Association should 
have been formed steps would have been taken for the 
holding of inter-university sports, but it seems that 
so far the difficulties in the way have been too great 



8 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1885 . 



^ er y few things worth having, however, are to be had 
without experiencing difficulties, and I hope that be- 
tween now and next Fall some steps will be taken in 
the matter. If the Toronto men would consent to 
come down here next year I see no obstacle whatever 
to the idea being carried out. I have been told by 
persons who were in Toronto at the time that the pro- 
posal when first made a year ago was received there 
with enthusiasm. In short the matter must be brought 
within the range of practical politics again. 

* * 

* 

But I should not be content with even an inter- 
university football match and an inter-university 
athletic meeting. I am not one who rejoices over- 
much “ in the strength of any man’s legs.” I should 
like to see in addition some intercourse of a literary 
nature. How such may be obtained is the difficulty. 
But I like overcoming difficulties, and I admire those 
who have the will and courage to attempt to overcome 
them, and I have a hope that at some time in the future 
this particular difficulty shall have been overcome. 

* * 

* 

Speaking of intellectual as opposed to other pur- 
suits leads me to remark that it would he well for 
many in this university city, young as well as old, to 
try to understand and follow the advice contained in 
a quotation given by Matthew Arnold to his Culture 
ana Anarchy. “It is a sign of a nature not finely 
tempered., says Epictetus, “ to give yourselves up to 
things which relate to the body ; to make, for instance, 
a great fuss about exercise, a great fuss about eatin<* a 
great fuss about drinking, a great fuss about walking, 
a great fuss about riding. All these things ought to 
be done merely by the way : the formation of the 
spirit and character must be our real concern. Epic- 
tetus might have included “ a great fuss about tobog- 
ganing. ° 



graceful act on the part of the editors to give a few 
of these valuable pictures as a donation to the new 
underground dining hall which has lately been opened 
at College. There is a rumour that they have been 
promised to the Art Association for their loan exhibi- 
tion. Like that great work “ The Raising of Jarius’ 
Daughter ” they require to be seen by gas-light to be 
appreciated. Having taken the only chair in the 
room my friends surrounded me, some sitting on the 
table, others on the floor, and entertained me for three 
mortal hours with a flow of anecdotes very choice and 
most instructive. Having become thoroughly saturated 
with tobacco smoke I took my leave, thanking the 
editors for their kindness and promising to drop in 
very frequently to see them during the winter. 

I forgot to mention that the lady of the house is a 
regular goddess, who having been asked during the 
course of the evening to provide us with a spittoon, 
replied that “ she wasn’t sure but perhaps she might. ” 

Critic. 



A SONG OF THE McG. U. A. A. A. 

The boys were in the lecture room, 
But empty was the chair, 

For, oh, the President was away, 

Nor was the Vice P. there. 

For these they waited long enough, 

But neither showed his face, 

Then let the committee elect 
Some one to fill his place. 

Alas ! on counting it was found 
The meeting must fall through, 

The committee no quorum had 
And, therefore, nought could do. 

Now, is this not a serious thing 
That five and thirty men 
Should gather in the college hall 
And straight disperse again T 



TflctBiU News. 



* 

I was kindly invited the other day by the editors of 
the University Gazette, on account I suppose of my 
efforts to spoil their paper, to pay a visit to their new 
editorial room, or sanctum, as such places are generally 
called. I accepted the invitation, not, however, with- 
out some misgivings as to the result. I thought that 
they had probably engaged some moderately sized 
pantry or prevailed upon some respectable cook to let 
them have the use of the kitchen once a week. But 
what was my surprise to be ushered into a palatial 
apartment gorgeously furnished, the walls hung with 
pictures, and the floor covered with a magnificent Brus- 
sels-carpet. Not being in the business I cannot swear as 
to the exact age of the carpet, but I do know a " 00 d 
picture when I see it. There before my eyes were 
paintings by the great masters, Burlando, Desbarastes, 
Lithographo, Oleographo, Rembrandt, Sir Joshua Rey- 
nolds and the rest of them. The favorite subjects 
seemed to be beautiful women in graceful attitudes. 
But the most valuable work of art was a piece of 
tapestry supposed to have been presented to Solomon 
by the Queen of Sheba. To me, to be sure, the trees 
resembled very much a crop of asparagus, but then I 
am not a connoisseur of tapestry. It would be a very 



The ladies’ department is supplied with several 
standard periodicals for the students to read at leisure 
P r °y. ld ed> is understood, through the thoughtfulness 
ot Sir \\ m. Dawson. 

i stu dents of the Presbyterian College have 
adopted a ribbon. It is based upon that of McGill in 
m ing a broad central band and a narrow border. 
Ihe centre is blue and the border white and yellow. 

1 his year inaugurates a new era in the chemical de- 
par went of Science.. The Lansdowne medal has been 

0 lered for competition among those members of the 

work 1 ' 6ar Ulemistly course 38 a prize for advanced 

1 w he Pres ^y ter J an College Journal has resumed pub- 
hcation under the able editorship of Mr. McFarlane, 

slue b t\ PageS i ai ' e Smaller than those of the previous 
to thirty -two! 6 J6en mcreased m number from twelve 

on^alnvH^ tral hall in the Arts building was enlivened 
Football ® vem “S> Halloween, by a meeting of the 
Doseofpfi' r ’ and Athletic Association, for the pur- 
was a hitch amalgamation. Unfortunately there 

not be taken ^ amn S ements > and the chair could 



1885 .] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



9 



The following officers have been elected by the un- 
dergraduates in Medicine : 4th year, G. H. Raymond, 

B.A. President ; Alf. Raymond, Vice President ; J. S. 
Clarke, Secretary ; * 2nd year, H. E. Kendall, B.A., 
President ; 1st year, J. D. Hamilton, President ;E. J. 
Saphie, \ ice-President ; J. Low, Secretary. 

Mr. Colin H. Livingstone, the representative editor 
from Arts, owing to lack of time, has resigned. 
Though the appointment of his successor* Mr. A. P. 
Murray, is very satisfactory, Mr. Livingstone’s great 
energy and ability are difficult to replace, as during 
last session and this he has been a valuable member of 
the staff. 

Mr. Currie, curator of the Museum, has recently 
placed in the collection a tine series of weathered fossils 
which he has been collecting in and about the island of 
Montreal. These fossils have been gathered from old 
fences and are remarkably distinct, as the rain has acted 
as sculptor with a touch more delicate than any human 
hand could give. 

On the 24th. inst., Sir Wm. Dawson, accompanied 
his geological class on an excursion to the various 
points of interest on and about Mount Royal. The 
Principal easily discovered to his followers hundreds 
of objects which they, in their former unscientific ram- 
bles about the Park, had heedlessly overlooked, or 
wilfully ignored. As usual, the thanks of the class are 
due to our Principal for his kindness in affording them 
this opportunity for practical study. 

The laboratory received three cases of apparatus 
from Germany recently, one of the consequences of 
Dr. Harrington’s trip to Europe. They contained 
many instruments for advanced work, such as for the 
determination of vapoYdensities and the measurement 
of the tension of gases under explosion. A new 
balance of precision, a barometer, many burettes, one 
of which is for the determination of sulphur dioxide, 
a number of flasks of all shapes, sizes and conditions 
of complexity, and tubes bent and twisted and stop- 
cocked, make up the bulk of this additipn to the la- 
boratory. The new self-feeding water bath, which 
accompanied them, is already in favour among the 
students. Notwithstanding the delicacy of their con- 
struction, few of the instruments were broken, but, as 
usual, those which were injured were among the most 
desired, as, for example, the manometer. 



THE UNIVERSITY CORPORATION. 

The regular meeting of Corporation was held Wed- 
nesday Oct. 28th. Sir Wm. Dawson, Vice-Chancellor, 
presiding. Among the interesting facts made known, 
is that the Library contains 25,031 books. 

A new guide to the Peter Redpath Museum has been 
prepared under the immediate supervision of Principal 
Sir .William Dawson. 

A number of reports, and of photographs and 
plans of the University Buildings, are being prepared 
at the request of Sir Charles Tupper, to be shown at 
the Colonial Exhibition to be held in London next 
year. 

A voluminous report of the committee appointed 



to codify the regulation was presented and ordered to 
be printed, Sir William Dawson and Justices Torran- 
ce and McKay being the committee to revise it. 

The University lecture was postponed, and will 
possibly take place about Christmas or the New Year. 

Mr. Percy J. Bolland, of the engineering staff of 
the Grand Trunk Railway, has been secured to the 
Faculty of Applied Science as Instructor in Mechanical 
Engineering, and Mr. Bowe, architect, has been 
engaged by the same faculty as Instructor in free-hand 
drawing. Mr. Chandler has been raised to the rank 
of Professor in the Faculty, with the title of Professor 
of Practical Mathematics. 

Miss Green has been appointed by the Government, 
instructor in drawing in McGill Normal School. The 
utmost precautions have been taken against small-pox, 
but the visitation has reduced the number of pupil 
teachers by about a quarter, though all other depart- 
ments of the University have maintained their 
strength. The .Normal School building has, under the 
directions of the Government, been considerably im- 
proved and better adapted for the growing work 
carried on in it. 

The following have passed the school examinations 
for the rank of A. A. : Fredk. Hoey, 972 marks ; Thos. 
R Mclnnes, 695 marks, and Margaret Murchy, all 
from the High School of New Westminster, British 
Columbia. 



Societies. 



The second regular meeting of the society, for the 
winter session, was held on Saturday, Oct. 24th, 
eighteen members being present. In the absence of 
the president, Dr. Stewart, Mr. Kirkpatrick occupied 
the chair. After this the election of three new mem- 
bers and the proposal of twenty-two others for election 
at next meeting followed After some miscellaneous 
business was disposed of regarding procuring of dailies, 
periodicals, etc., for the society, an interesting “ case” 
report was read by Mr. L. F. Ross. This led to pro- 
fitable discussion, which was joined in by several of 
those present. 

It is probable that after the first meeting in Novem- 
ber, the subsequent meetings will be held in the 
reading-room of the society, in the college, instead of 
at 14 Philips square as heretofore. 



McGILL MEDICAL SOCIETY. 

The first regular meeting was held on Saturday 
evening October 10th. There was a fair attendance, 
Mr. G. W. Boggs acting as chairman in the absence of 
the President. After the business was concluded, Mr. 
Kirkpatrick, exhibited some interesting pathological 
specimens of Lungs, Heart, Kidney and Uteras. The 
meeting then adjourned. 



DELTA SIGMA. 

The above mentioned society, composed of ladies of 
the Arts Faculty held its first meeting for the present 
session on October 12th. Miss Simpson read an interest- 



10 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1885 . 



ing paper upon Mary II. of England, and after a very 
enjoyable time was spent the meeting broke up. We 
are glad to see that the ladies are not only forming 
societies but making them successful, and we congratu- 
late them upon the choice of a name which is a grate- 
ful tribute to the gentleman whose beniticence has 
thrown open the doors of McGill to them. The letters 
A 2. or in English D. S., refer to the name of the 
endowment, Donalda Smith. 

Another meeting of the society was held on Tues- 
day evening, the 3rd inst., when a clever paper was 
read on “ Scenes and Incidents in the Backwoods,” by 
one of the members. 



UNDERGRADUATES LITERARY SOCIETY 

At the meeting on October 30th., the programme 
was opened by Mr. Clements, who read an essay on one 
of the rescent geological excursions. Mr Colby then 
followed with a reading. The question, — “ Resolved 
that the English Language alone should be used in 
Canada forParliamentary and Legal purposes,” was ably 
discussed by Messrs. Holden, Bryau, and Murray, on 
the affirmative, while the negative side of the debate 
was in the hands of Messrs. Dalp£, LeRossignol, and 
Walsh. As might be expected, the meeting declared 
unanimously for the affirmative. The amendment to 
the constitution proposed by Mr. Mason, to which 
an amendment had been moved by Mr. Topp, was 
deferred till next meeting, through lack of time. After 
the remarks of the critic, Mr. A. P. Solandt, the meet- 
ing adjourned. 



UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY. 

ANNUAL MEETING. 

The annual meeting of this Society was held on 
Friday, Oct. 30th, at 15 Phillip’s Square, Mr. Mc- 
Goun in the chair, and a fair attendance of members 
being present. 

The attending members consisted of Messrs. Ough- 
tred, Mackie, A. G. Cross, Elliot, Dixon, Reddy, 
Ritchie, Boyd, Fry, Colquhoun, Murray, Silver, 
Wright, Brown, O’Halloran, R. Greenshields, Smith, 
Dunton, Budden, Unsworth, Turner, Barnard and 
Kavanagh. 

On motion of Mr. Mackie, seconded by Mr. Elliott, 
the annual report was unanimously adopted. 

Mr. Elliott read the Treasurer’s report, which, on 
motion of Mr. Turner, seconded by Mr. Wright, was 
received, the suggestions in it being held over for dis- 
cussion before adoption. 

The election of officers was then proceeded with, re- 
sulting as follows : President, Mr. A. McGoun, Jr. 

(re-elected); 1st Vice-President, Mr. C. J. Brooke; 
2nd Vice-President, Mr. J. R. Murray; Treasurer, 
Mr. J. F. Mackie ; Corresponding Secretary, Mr. W. 
H. Turner; Recording Secretary, Mr. Hy. Fry. 
Council — Messrs. R. C. Smith, A. R. Oughtred, W. F. 
Ritchie, George C. Wright, S. P. Leet, A. H. U. Col- 
quhoun. 

Proposed amendments to the constitution were then 
taken up, and 



Mr. Barnard moved that the speakers in debates 
should hand in to the chairman at each meeting, before 
the discussion began, a memorandum of the points in 
their arguments, and thus ensure a certain amount 
of preparation. 

After some debate the amendment was rejected, as 
was also one that a week’s notice ol amendments to 
the constitution should be given. 

The suggestion in the Treasurer’s report was then 
taken up — namely, that the membership fee for gradu- 
ates be raised to $4, that of undergraduates remaining 
as heretofore at $1. This was also rejected, and the 
meeting adjourned. 



Sporting. 



FOOTBALL. 

MCGILL VS. BRITANNIA. 

The above match took place on Saturday, Oct. 24tli, 
on the College grounds ; the teams were as follows : — 



McGill. 




Britannia. 


W. J. Hamilton. 


Back. 


W. Whitelaw. 


W. M. Reid. 


Half Back. 


J. Arnton. 


C. P. Brown. 


44 


B. Bell. 


A. Drummond. 


1C 


J. B. Craven. 


J. Dunlop. 


Quarter Back. 


B. Stevenson. 


J. E. May. 

J. Kerry, (Capt.) 
R. Palmer. 


Forward. 


J. Baillie. 
H. Corbett. 
W. Atwood 


A. Kirby. 

J. Naismith. 

R. B. O’Sullivan. 
C. H. Macnutt. 
H. Patton. 

J. H. Springle. 

C. Kingston. 


(Capt.) 


S. Blaiklock 
K D. Young. 

W. Munn. 

T. Scott- 

A. Shearer. 

P. M. Robertson. 
J. Prevost. 



Britannia kicked off at 3.45, forced the ball down 
the field, and scored a touch in a few minutes, but 
failed to kick the goal. After kickout the ball was 
brought slowly back and attempts at drop-kicking by 
Arnton were frustrated by the quickness of Springle 
and Patton. McGill was soon forced to rouge and 
then after some more close scrimmaging Prevost secured 
a touch from which a goal was kicked. After kick-off 
the ball came back very near to the McGill goal but 
danger in that quarter was removed by a fine run 
and kick of Hamilton’s and for the rest of the time 
the ball was kept in the centre of the field where 
Kirby and Naismith played well in the scrimmage. 
At half-time the score was 13 to 0 in favor of Britan- 
nia. Second three-quarters : After McGill’s kick-off 
the ball stayed about the middle of the field, several 
rouges however being scored by Britannia ; during this 
time Blaiklock and May did very fine work. On ac- 
count of the growing darkness it was becoming difficult 
to judge of the play when Arnton made a long run in 
from about midfield. No goal was kicked and time 
was immediately called leaving the score 22 to 0. 

(On endeavoring to rouge, in one instance, one of 
the McGill ‘ backs ’ evidently mistook a lady under- 
graduate for a Britannia. However he got the ball.) 

The team showed great improvement on the previous 
Saturday. May and Patton at ‘ forward’ and Hamilton 
and Reid at ‘back’ did probably the beit work, but 
all played well. The 1 forwards ’ however showed a 
disinclination to trust to their ‘backs’ and did not 



1885 .] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



11 



follow up fast enough thereby giving the Britannia 
‘ backs 7 time to kick. 

Second Team. 

This team was organized on Oct. 15th, and were de- 
feated on the 17th of that month by the Britannias, 
through lack of practice and notably because several 
of the players failed to turn up. On the 24th they 
defeated the Montreal Second after a most exciting 
gajue, the score standing 4 to 0 ; for McGill, Swabey, 
Waters and Jamieson played very fine games. The 
second team is a decided credit to the University. 

Ten of the McGill freshmen beat the Britannia 
Third Fifteen on the 31st ult. by a score of 15 to 14. 

SCIENCE vs. MEDICINE. 

The above match for the faculty championship took 
place on the 28th ult. and science men say it more 
than made up for the tug-of-war. The score tells its 
own story : Science 31 ; medicine 1. 

McGILL U. A. A. 

It seems a pity that such an event as a general 
meeting of the above association should be allowed to 
fall through on account of the absence of a presiding 
officer and enough of the committee to elect a succes- 
sor. Such an occurrence as this does not speak very 
highly for the athletic spirit of >all in authority. 
Perhaps it’s because the sports are over. 



Personals. 

[The whereabouts and employments of graduates and former 
members of the University being especially interesting, we invite 
news of this description from our readers.— Eds ] 

Dr. Elder, ’84, has settled in Huntingdon, P.Q. 

Duncan L. McMillan, M.D., ’85, is in Alexandria, 
Ont. 

J. D. Deacon, ’88, Med. has gone to Trinity College, 
Toronto. 

Dr. E. G. Wood, gold medalist, ’64, is practising in 
Mitchell, Ont. 

Prof. Darey was this summer made an officer of the 
Frerch Academy. 

D. Lariviere, B.A., is now rector of L’Eglise du 
Redempteur, Montreal. 

A. McK. Cattanach, M.D. ’82, is practising success- 
fully in Alexandria, Ont. 

Joseph Higgins, B.A., ’85, is now studying theology 
at Knox College. Toronto. 

Prof. Penhallow was last summer elected a member 
of the Royal Society of Canada. 

Thos. Lesage. B. Ap. Sc. is employed in the Public 
Works Department of this city. 

Geo. McLennan, B.A., ’85, has gone to Knox 
(Presbyterian) College, Toronto. 

Hugh J. McDonald, M.D. ’85, has already a flourish- 
ing practice in Chippewa Falls, Mich. 



Drs. Gasten, Eberts and Finley, are on the Resident 
Staff of the Montreal General Hospital. 

Mr. J. Ferguson, ’87, has been compelled on account 
of ill health to spend the year in Colorado. 

Mr. J. H. Burland, President of the directors’ board 
returned from Europe on the Parisian on the 1st 
inst. 

S. Fortier, B. Ap. Sc., for two years an Editor of the 
Gazette, is now engaged in engineering work at 
Leeds, Que. 

F. W. Skaife, of class ’84; who has been for two 
years at Guelph Agricultural College is now at his 
home in Montreal. 

E. P. Mathewson, B. Ap. Sc., was engaged during 
last summer on the Geological Survey, and has now 
returned to the city for a few days. 

H. D. Johnson, M.D., C,M., ’85 is at present prac- 
tising at Eldon, P.E.I. Last summer he acted as assist- 
ant physician in the P.E.I. Asylum. 

J. C. Martin, B,A. ’85, Robt. Stewart, B.A.,’82, and 
W. K. Shearer, B.A., ’83, are all this year attending 
lectures at Union College, New York. 

John Elder, B.A.,M.D.,C.M., has settled himself for 
the present at Huntingdon, Que., and is very rapidly 
working up a large and lucrative practice. 

Hedley V. Thompson, B.A., B. Ap. Sc., has been 
engaged during the past summer on the Harbor Com- 
missioners Works along the St. Lawrence river. 

J. J. Miller, Med. ’88, of Halifax, N.S., who received 
his degree of B.A. from Dalhousie College last Spring, 
is now a student in the Medical School of Edinburgh 
University. 

The many friends of Mr. A. B. Osborne of the class 
of ’84 will be glad to learn of his recovery from his 
attack of typhoid fever which hindered him from 
graduating last spring. 

Geo. Rogers, B. A., ’84, the highly esteemed rector 
of St. Luke’s, city, is having a manse built in connec- 
tion with his church. George, George ! what does this 
mean ! Is this a fair question 1 

E. Herbert Stafford, the “ Tom Chatterton ” of ’88 
Arts, has jumped Minerva’s traces and gone on a trip 
to England, with a view, doubtless, of supplanting 
Lord Tennyson as poet laureate . 

Cyrus W. Perkins, formerly Science ’86 is now in Le 
Sueur, Minn., as Superintendent of The Wurst Min 
ing & Manufacturing Company with a salary of §1200 
per annum and a promise of more. 

Messrs. P. F. McCallum, D. S. Murray, H. S. 
Jacques, H. V. Pearman, late of Halifax Medical 
School, have this year entered McGill, where they in- 
tend to proceed to the degree of M.D.C.M. 

George S. Kennedy, M.A., B. Ap. Sc. ’73 is Pro- 
fessor of Chemistry at King’s College, Windsor, N.S. 
During the session of ’71 he was assistant in the 
chemical laboratory to Sir William Dawson. 



12 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. [1885. 



E. A. Sheppard, ’88, Med., of Barbadoes, is now 
studying medicine in Edinburgh. It was the climate 
of Montreal and not the small-pox that determined 
our West Indian friend’s absence from McGill this 
year. 

The many friends of Mr. F. Wolferstan Thomas, B. A. 
’82, in Montreal, were delighted to see him once more 
his in old haunts last week. As mentioned in our last 
number Mr Thomas has been admitted to the bar of 
Ontario and int nds to follow his profession in 
Toronto where he has been studying for the last few 
years. It will be remembered that Wolf, when on 
active service in the north-west got up a football team 
from amongst the men of the Queen’s Own and bsat 
the whole army. 



Between the Lectures. 



Fresh and musty, 

Clean and dusty, 

Weak and lusty, 

Bright and rusty, 

Here we are. 

Take us coolly, 

We’re unruly ; 

Laugh unduly, 

We’re 

Yours truly, 

JOR.ES. 

Ta! Tal 



FIGURATIVE ASTRONOMY. 



Astronomy is derful 
And interesting, 

The ear ^ volves around the sun 
Which makes a year you. 



The moon is dead and can’t re £) 
By law of phys0 great; 

It’s 7 where the stars alive 
Do softly scintill ^ 

If watchful Providence be 0 
With good in 10 tions fraught 
Did not keep up its grand design 
We soon would come to Q 

Astronomy is wonderful ; 

Bm ifs 2 80 4 
J man ^ grasp, and that is why 
I’d better say no more. 



MY PONY. 

My pony, ’tis of thee, 
Emblem of liberty, 

To thee I sing, 

Book of my Freshman days, 
Worthy of fondest praise, 
Worthy of poet’s lays, 

I’d tribute bring. 



“I sat me down and thought it o’er, 

And found the maxim true, 

It is easier to like a girl 

Than to make a girl like you. 

A bit of real life— A piece of boarding-school cheese. 

“ Friends, Bomans and countrymen, beware of the 
q-cumber. It will w up.” 

Tom’s recipe for making stovepipes— take a long, 
cylindrical hole and wrap a roll of sheet-iron around 
it. 

A question for the Undergraduates Literary Society : 
What was their Secretary doing at Clarenceville, last 
week ? An answer is anxiously awaited. 

Says the New Orleans Picayune : “ While medical 

students are being harshly condemned for robbing 
graves it is forgotten that the students intend to fill 
them up again when they go into practice. ’ 

Little Bess to gentleman caller — “You ain’t black, 

are you, Mr. M ?” “Black, child? Why no ; I 

should hope not. What made you think I was ? ” “ Oh, 
nothin’; ’cept pa said you was awful niggardly.” 

We must go from home to get news. The Whitby 
Sunbeam tell* us that “ Mr. X. B. Gunne of McGill 
University, called on Miss Fraine last Tuesday night.” 
This won’t do, Gunne ; you must refraine from such 
conduct in future. We do n’t want you to go-off yet 
awhile. 

When Y estrymen Green bowed his head to read the 
responses of the litany last Sunday he was very drowsy 
indeed, and he had repeated “ Lord have mercy upon 
us miserable sinners ” but three times when he fell 
fast asleep. His wife nudged him with her parasol 
without success. 

When the minister reached, “and now, seven- 
teenth ly, my beloved brethren,” Vestryman Green 
awoke, and being unconscious of the lapse of time re- 
sponded in a sonorous and fervent voice : 

“ Lord have mercy upon us miserable sinners.” — 
N. Y. Times . 

“ 0 Lucy, what do you think of the yacht race?” 

“ Indeed I don’t know much about it ; how 
was it ? ” 

“ 0, don’t you ! Charley was up as usual last 
night, you know, and he told me all about it — you 
know Charley takes a great interest in these things.” 

“ Yes, tell me about it.” 

“ Well, when the Puritan started she stood on her 
starboard tack and broke it.” 

“No ! what’s a starboard tack?” 

“ I don’t know, but pretty soon the Genesta luffed 
her spinnaker boom, and passed a red buoy on the 
port side.” 

“A red boy? An Indian, was it?” interrupted 
Lucy. 

“ I don’t know. I’ll ask Charley. And then they 
both stood on the starboard tack awhile, till the 
Puritan’s mainsail got mixed with the stern sheets 



“ A\ hat are the stern sheets ? ” 

“ I don’t know, IT ask Charley — and the Genesta 



1885.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



13 



stood on some more tacks, and the Puritan held her 
own ” 

“ Held her own what ? ” 

“ I don’t know, I’ll ask Charley — and then the 
Puritan held her own until the Genesta was a mile to 

the leeward- ” 

“ The leeward ; what’s that 1 ” 

“ I don’t know ; I’ll ask Charley — and by that 

time they both broke tacks with each other, and ” 

“ Broke tacks ; that was bad.” 

“ Y^s, very bad ; and then they rounded some more 

buoys, and the Puritan went in corsets, and ” 

“ What ! went in corsets !” repeated Lucy shocked. 
“ No, not corsets, went in stays is what Charlie 
said, but it’s the same thing; and then the Puritan 

came out ahead, and the yachts ” 

“ The yachts — what are yachts, my dear 'l ” 

“0, I don’t know, I’ll ask Charlie, and ” 

And here we had to get off the car. — Pittsburg 
Chronicle. 



OUR OWN JOKER AT WORK. 

The other day a forlorn looking creature called upon 
us at our office and insisted upon leaving a bundle of 
manuscript. He tried to explain its contents, but as our 
mind was occupied in seeking items for our numerous 
readers, we did not listen to his words and he left us 
with a dim idea that the roll was in some way connect- 
ed with India. Later on, when exhausted by our her- 
culean labors, we lay back in our easy chair and seeking 
something of a soothing nature, took up this man’s 
portfolio. The first sentence ran thus : 

“ What mineral would the Recorder most likely 
mention should his list of drunks be unusually large 
some day ? “ Come, now ” we exclaimed, this man is 

a character. He is like Carlyle, and begins as far from 
his subject as he can. He must be a poet for he recog- 
nises resemblances in most different subjects. “ What 
is the answer ? It might be a comical sight ? (calcite) 
or — but we stopped here and read on : — “ He would 
probaly ask to see less tights (celestites). We sighed 
wearily. “ This punning on minerals schorly a ventur- 
ine unknown seas.” But we could not see the Indian 
subject so we read further. The next sentence was 
about football. 

It seemed a serious item enough and ran as follows : — 
The McGill Football captain is not often found John 
his men, yet he has them in Georgeous trim and says 
that he’ll raise a Gale if they don’t Kerry all before 
them at Toronto. 

Still no India. We began to get discouraged but 
went a little further still and read 

A German, just arrived in the city, was passing up 
St. Denis Street and saw the usual placard. “ Hello,” 
he cried to a passer by ; “ Voudt you dell me vat dose 
placards mean vas?” 

“ Oh ! That’s the small-pox, picotte, you knew” re- 
plied the citizen. 

“ Der Schmall-pox ! ! Yell, mein vrient, I dont pe - 
caught me; Mein pisiness ist in New York” — and 
he went there. 

We arose in our anger to seek that man but just as 
we had put on our hat he entered, and we saluted him. 



But he bore our revilings so patiently that we melted 
and finally said. “ My dear fellow why did you tell us 
you trash related to India ! “ So it all does,” he replied, 
isn’t it a pun job ? 

t- * * * * * * # * * * * 

Our landlady has just told us that if we will throw 
people out of the window we must pay for the glass. 



College UIorl6. 



The Freshman class at Harvard this year numbers 
260. 

At Yale a Chinese student took the prize for English 
Composition’. 

There are thirty-one colored students in the Fresh- 
man class at Yale. 

Seventy-nine per cent, of Russia’s soldiers can 
neither read nor write. 

Dr. George C. Lo rimer has just been elected to the 
presidency of the Chicago University. 

The largest Sanskrit class in the country is at the 
University of Pennsylvania, and numbers eleven 
students. 

Prof. J. Bell Pettigrew, M. D., F. R, S. is mentioned 
as the successor of Principal Shairp of St. Andrew’s 
University, Scotland. 

Colby University enrolls a small freshman class 
this year, there being but 22 in its ranks. 

Bowdoin has 37 freshmen, and Bates 41. 

Dr. Noah Porter, for 14 years President of Yale 
College, has resigned. The cause is not given, but it 
is said to be the criticism by members Qf the corpora- 
tion of his executive ability. 

King’s College N.S. has begun the new collegiate 
year with a staff of five professors and with twenty-seven 
students. A prosperous year seems opening before 
the college after all its recent troubles. 

The Royal Academy of Turin offers a prize of 
twelve thousand francs for the most useful and strik- 
ing discovery in anatomy, physiology, pathology, the 
exact sciences, geography, or statistics, effected between 
Dec. 31, 1885, and Dec. 31, 1886. Members of the 
Academy are not eligible to the competition. 



itorresponbence. 



CONDUCT ON THE CAMPUS. 

Editors University Gazette : 

Dear Sirs, — I am sorry to observe that the Fresh- 
man class in Medicine is this year discredited by the 
presence of one or two peculiarly conspicuous abnor- 
malities. One of these beings, as yet uninfluenced 
by contact with civilized society, made himself par- 
ticularly odious to some hundreds of spectators, 
assembled on the campus on the occasion of the recent 
Britannia-McGill football match, by flourishing in 



14 



McGILL UNIVEKSITY GAZETTE, 



[1885. 



their presence a “ human” Femur in a most disgusting 
manner. Though the sensibilities of some are not 
shocked by such sights, all are not alike constituted, 
and therefore I think that actions so beyond the pale 
of all decorum should not only be discountenanced 
but suppressed. Such conduct, I believe, merits the 
severest censure, and hence it is not for the propagation 
of a bad repute, but for the justification of a class that 
I would have you condescend to notice such perform- 
ances, fully confident that, while you shall do that 
class no injury, you are powerless to* awaken in those 
whom you may thus criticize the action of the finer 
sensibilities so indurated by long misuse. 

Y ours, Anti-Femur. 



THE STUDY OF CLASSICS. 

Editors McGill Gazette : 

Dear Sirs. — Your contributor in his recent re- 
marks on the merits and disadvantages of classical 
education is, I think, unnecessarily severe, almost 
bitter. From a classical standpoint I am perhaps as 
equally, if not better qualified, to enter into its advan- 
tages as he, as I understand that his connection with 
classics terminated with his second year and that then 
his standing was rather below the average. 

He is perfectly justified in asserting the value of 
science and modem literature, but to his implied state- 
ment of the uselessness of classics, I must demur. A 
ready case in point. There are two courses in the 
High School of Montreal, one classical, the other 
science. In the Science Faculty of McGill, in a 
majority of cases the boy classically trained goes ahead 
— why h Because the term of scientific usuage which 
the scientifically-trained boy is handicapped in memor- 
izing, the other can both apprehend and comprehend 
by virtue of his classical knowledge. 

Mr. Turner must have but slight acquaintance with 
the science of medicine, or else to have carefully 
omitted to remember it, in his writing. One word of 
purely classical formation often expresses the entire 
functions, form and structure of a portion of the body, 
and I should imagine it almost an impossibility to carry 
on original investigations without some considerable 
classical knowledge. Discoveries would be lost for 
want of names to perpetuate them ; and how infinitely 
better that these names should contain the explanation 
and history of this discovery. 

If I may be permitted the liberty, I will take up a 
few of Mr. Turner’s arguments, to attempt to answer 
them all would be presumption on my part as a mere 
student. He says that the upholders of classics are 
professors in danger of losing their situations, I would 
refer him to the expressions of Canon Farrar, some 
pages further on in your last weeks’ number, I would 
also repeat the opinion of an eminent mathematician, 
a teacher also of classics, expressed to me last spring, 
“ I have found” said he “ after forty years of teaching, 
that a sound classical knowlege is the best basis on 
which to build a future education.” Moreover, the 
speech of the Vice-Dean two years ago upholds 
classics, and if these men whose knowledge is so 
thorough in both lines, deemed the one so eminently 
superior, they would hardly sustain the other. 



I can well understand your contributor’s rooted 
antipathy to classics, if as I have stated his knowledge 
of them is so superficial. Just the same has it been 
found with mathematics. When a student has not 
entered into the subject and done his work thoroughly, 
he has found it the greatest drudgery, and has derived 
no benefit from it. 

Let it be granted that memory is equally exercised 
in the study of an Ancient as in a Modern language ; 
that is however not its maiji point. Surely no one will 
compare the mental effort and ingenuity called forth 
in construing a passage of Greek to the translating of 
one of French, leaving out the beauty and present use 
of the latter tongue. In a person doing classics 
thoroughly, the intensity of the application and 
memory required promotes deep and various thought. 

But here again this gentleman can scarcely speak 
from personal experience. 

I find it strange to read his remarks on the superior 
utility of mathematical study towards promoting re- 
flection, for I presumed him to be the author of the 
severe criticism of last year’s numbers, on the mathe- 
matical theory work of our own Science Faculty. 

He seems to me to restrict too much the meaning of 
the term, classical education. It is usually understood 
to embrace the mental, moral and much of the physi- 
cal sciences, as well as history. 

Were it possible to discern the motives which have 
actuated the greatest statesmen and generals of modern 
times we would most surely find them to have formed 
their plans and drawn their inspirations from similar 
actions of the great men whose deeds are recorded to 
us by ancient history. 

Science is and yet it is not catholic. Assuredly it 
is among its OAvn votaries, but bringing it down rather 
low, who has ever accompanied a scientific friend to 
view some engineering work, and has not been utterly 
crushed at his scientific contempt for our unscientific 
nature. 

Mr. Turner affirms the absence of “ appreciation of 
principles in classics.” Omitting the fact that much 
more “ shady” principles exist in our own Literature, 
the question may be asked from what source comes the 
first principles of all moral, mental and physical 
science ? 

In his ideal picture of a classical scholar the writer 
has rather drawn a pedant. I should have taken as 
the type of a liberally and classically-educated man, 
Mr. Gladstone, or nearer home, Mr Goldwin Smith. 

Classics after all are not so much set forth as a spe- 
cial study, as a basis on which to found a wider 
education. 

As I do not know Mr. Turner, I hope in these lines, 

I shall not be thought to have indulged in personality, 
simply having stated my objections to the arguments 
as set forth, and what advantages I myself have de- 
rived from classical study. H. M. P. 

[Our correspondent’s ingenuous disclaimer of in- 
dulging in personality is hardly borne out by his pre- 
vious remarks, but we give his letter, knowing that the 
writer he criticises is well able to defend himself. — 
Eds.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



auction sale MEN’S FURNISHINGS. 



Periodicals in Reading-Room, 

(Arts Building,) 

Saturday , ljfth November, 

AT 10 O’CLOCK A.M. 

At which sale the following, along with other periodicals, will be put 
up at Auction : r 

Principal English and American Illustrated Papers. 
CENTURY MAGAZINE. 

NINETEENTH CENTURY. 

BLACKWOOD’S MAGAZINE. 

ECLECTIC MAGAZINE. 

POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY. 

CHAMBERS’ JOURNAL. 

SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN & SUPPLEMENT. 

GRIP (Toronto.) 

JUDY (London.) 

PUNCH (London.) 

LIFE (New York.) 

All Law, Medicine, Arts and Science Students are 
invited to attend. 

WELLINGTON CAMERON, JAS. M. McCARTHY, 

Treasurer. Secy. A’. -A’. Com., 

And Auctioneer for the occasion . 

J.& E.McENTYRE, 

Merchant 4^- 

-W TAILORS, 

==] I©-71 [ ===— 




For the largest and best selected stock of the following 
goods, at lowest prices, 

Come to S. CARSLEY’S. 

Grey Flannel Shirts . Blue Flannel Shirts . 
Fancy Flannel Shirts . 

All the above with Collar attached or without. 

CARDIGAN JACKETS, in all Sizes, Qualities and Kinds, 

At S. CARSI EY’S. 

CARDIGAN JACKETS WITHOUT SLEEVES. 
CARDIGAN JACKETS WITHOUT SLEEVES. 
CARDIGAN JACKETS WITHOUT SLEEVES. 

At S. CARSLEY’S. 

Cardigan Jackets from 65c. up to $9.00, 

At S. CARSLEY’S. 

For Men's Underwear, in all imaginable makes, qua- 
lities and sizes. 

Come to S. CARSLEY’S. 

Men's Canadian Underskirts, witk Drawers to match, 
from 22c. up to $1.00, 

At S. CARSLEY’S. 

Men's Real Scotch Lambs’ Wool Undershirts, from 
$1.20 up to $4.20, 

At S. CARSLEY’S. 



S. OARSLEY, 

Notre Dame St., 

MONTREAL. 




BICYCLES ! ! 

Lawn Tennis Sets, Foot 
Balls, Boxing Gloves, 
Fencing Foils, 
Masks, &c. 

—ALSO — 




PRIZES OF ALL DESCRIPTION • 



MONTREAL, 



J\f j^OTMAN 




ON, 




New Seale of Prices 



THIS YEAR 



-He for STUDENTS 

17 BLBTTRY ST. 



WEDDING, CHRISTMAS AND BIRTHDAY PRESENTS, 

Fancy Goods, Electro Plate, &c. 

WATSON & PELTON, 

58 ST. SULFICE STREET. 

IE. A-. GERTH, 

IMPORTER OF 




Briar anti Meerschaum Pipes, 



SULTANS, KHEDIVES AND BEYS EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES IN BOXES OF 25. 

Try St-u.d.e».ts l*£i2ct-u.re. 

Paces and other Cut Plugs from $i.oo upwards. 

1323 ST. CATHERINE ST., QUEEN’S BLOCK, 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



GEO. BROWN & SONS, 

jlljirl mb dolbnj fUnmifatlmm, 

21 BLEURY ST. 

Snow Shoe &ToboganingSuits, Tuques, Sashes. 
Stockings, &c.. &c. 

'Special discount to students. 

jlurgiial ^nsirmninls. 

A FULL STOCK CONSTANTLY ON HAND 

IMPORTED DIRECT 

—FROM THE— 

Leading Manufacturers of the World. 

AS INSPECTION INVITED. 




384 ST. PAUL STREET. 



C. ASHFORD'S 

Cheap Book, Stationery, 

j±2<nD 

TM1 0¥ 600SS SB m 9 

MEDICAL BOOKS, 

Students' Note Books, Dissecting Cases & Scalpels, 

[BY WEISS & sousn, 

CHEAP FOR CASE. 

Books procured, to order from England & the United States. 

6781 AND 680 DORCHESTER ST., 

MONTREAL. 

PHOTOG-E/APHY. 

Fcr Cabinet Photos, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD’S. 

For Croups go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD’S. 

For Composition of Croups go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD'S. 

For all kinds of Photography go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD’S. 
SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleury Street. 



THE 

fjiirlanfl ]^itho^rapl|ic £jo’y., 

5 & 7 BLEURY STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

General Engravers, Lithographers, 
Printers and Publishers. 

This establishment is the oldest in Canada and is the 
largest and most complete of its kind in the Dominion, having 
every facility for executing 

ALL KINDS 

OF 

•^Engraving and Fine Printings 

NOTES, DRAFTS, CHEQUES, BILLS OF EXCHANGE 
and all classes of BANK WORK, finely executed on 
safety or other paper of the latest and 
most improved kinds. 

BILLHEADS, BUSINESS CARDS, NOTE & LETTER 
HEADINGS, ENVELOPES 

and every description of commercial form, 

By Lithography or Letter Press Printing. 

SHOW CARDS, GLOSS LABELS, COTTON TIC- 
KETS, MAPS, CALENDARS, and EVERY SPECIES of 
COLOR PRINTING. 



PHOTO-LITHOGPAPHY 

Reprod uctions rapidly and clearly made. 

Photo-Engraving 1 , 

BOOKS, PLANS, PEN DRAWINGS and MAPS, repro- 
duced suitable for ORDINARY PRINTER’S USE. 

peocess. 

We are the only firm in Canada Really Engraving 
subjects by this process, and can produce specimens of map 
work equal to the best work by U. S. artists. 

ELECTROTYPING and STEREOTYPING 

In all their several branches. 

Ball Programmes, Invitations, At Home and Visiting 
Cards, neatly and tastefully engraved and printed. 

SPECIAL DESIGNS MADE FOR 

MENU CARDS, ORESTS, MONOGRAMS, BUSINESS 
DIES, &c., &c. 

And all kinds of Paper, Envelopes and Cards 

Embossed ana Illuminated. 



