Vol. VII 



No. lO 



McGILL 




Friday, May 9th, 1884. 




C O NTENTS : 



The Unrecorded Vote 












PACE. 

1 


Correspondence 










PACE. 

6 


Editorials - 














College World 












Students’ Parting Song 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


3 


Between the Lectures - 


- 


- 


- 


• 


15 


Contributions - 












3-6 















MONTREAL : 

"WITNESS” PRINTING HOUSE. ST. JAMES STREET WEST. 

mi 



i 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Trenholme, Taylor & Digkson, 

Jldvoas.zes, ^dzzcrr.eys, dbc. 

13 HOSPITAL STREET, 

♦ 

MON TREAL. 

V . w Trenholme, M.A., B.c.L. A D. Taylor, b.A. B.c.L. W. E. Dickson, B.C.L. 



WM. B. S. REDDY, B.C.L. 
Commissioner fcr the Provinces of Oueoec, Ontario & Manitoba, 

118 ST. JAMES STREET. 



Magmaster, Hutchinson & Weir, 

-^tc^DYOC^Eg^ 

£ arris: or o, £ olid: or s, dco. 

102 ST. JAMES 

MONTREAIi. 

Donald Macmaster, Q.C. M Hutchinson, B.C.L. R. S. Weir, B.C.L 

QrEENSHIELDS, MgGorkill & Querm, 

ABV ©CATES, 

Suwtikr^, Jhkrtmji, SoUcihr4,^c. 

CHAMBERS: EXCHANGE BANK BUILCING, 

10S St. JFrcLJzcois Wavier St. } 



MOINTTREAIj. 

J. N. Greenshields. J. C. McCorkill 



Edmund Guerin. 



CHARLES CUSHING, B.C.L. 
HERBERT S. HUNTER, B.C.L. 

jjjotariea, ^ommkstcncr^ ^onutpum, &c. 

-9^N^R^I^6E:LICE]VSE.S-M33aED$-«. 

No. 110 ST. JAMES STREET. 

-He A» 

aok^ellc^ 

IMPORTER AND BINDER, 

71 ST, JAMES ST., MONTREAL. 








JOHH HENDERSOH & CO. 



gtOTW# 



283 NOTRE DAME ST. 




Extra Quality Goods at Lowest Cash Prices. 

Tlio “ McGIXili ” Ribbon for sale. 

-MtvWM. HILL***- 











ROOMS .AT ■ 






No. 1323 St, Catherine Street, 
St. Lawrence Hall, St. James St., 

— AND — 

Exchange Hotel, Point St. Charles. 

Shaving Tickets at Reduced Rates, good at any of above places. 



WM. FARQUHARSON, 

©KWcfvct 14- 1 ‘Cm i £o t , 

NO. 133 JEST. PETER GTREET, 

BETWEEN ST. JAMES AND CRAIG STREETS, 

MONTREA _ 



MTIjITARY UNIFORMS AL SPECIAXiTT. 



gnwm in 3 TI^ojtent 3 

A FULL STOCK CONSTANTLY ON HAND 

IMPOriTED DIKECT 



— FROM THE — 



LEADING MANUFACTURERS of tlie WORLD. 

S'-* AN INSPECTION INVITED. 



LYMAN SONS & CO. 

384 ST. JPA. VL STREET, 



SPECIAL TERMS TO STUDENTS. 




Vol. VII.] 



McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, MAY 9th, 1884. 



[No. 10. 



m&iihih heutessise shzesm. 



EDITORIAL COMMITTEE: 

Consulting Editor — E. Lafleur, B.A. 



J. R. Murray, B.A., ’86, Law. 
W. H. Turner, ’84, Arts. 

J. W. Moffat, ’84, Ap. Sc. 

F. McLennan, B.A., ’84, Law. 



H. S. McLennan, '85, Arts. 
W. W. White, B. A., ’86, Med. 
S. Fortier, ’85, Ap. Sc. 
Wyatt G. Johnston, ’ 84, Med. 



The University Gazette is published fortnightly during the College 
Session. 

Rejected Communications will not be returned, to which rule no 
exception can be made. The name of the writer must always accompany 
a communication. 



THE UNRECORDED VOTE. 

At the gate where gentlemen make the laws, 

She stopped one wintry night ; 

And she wrapped her cloak close— how it tears, how it gnaws, 

That hunger, with cruel spite ! 

And marvelled why the gay beam flashed from the tower’s stately height. 

O’er the distant streets, o’er the lanes and squares, 

The great eye circled round ; 

And she thought, as she gazed, if the eye of God stares, 

So far, far above the ground, 

So cold, so clear ; not half way up and the cry of want is drowned. 



During the year all must have felt the absence of our re- 
spected and renowned Principal. Dr. Dawson could not but be 
missed by the Governors and Professors, as well as by the Un- 
dergraduates of the University, and all, we are sure, will be 
glad to welcome him back amongst us. We have taken great 
pleasure during the winter in following his movements in Europe, 
and although the College was deprived of his teaching and his 
counsel, yet we were glad to know that his health was being 
recruited and that he was enjoying a well deserved holiday 
amongst pleasing scenes in the Old World. He was especially 
fortunate in being able to be present at the great meeting re- 
cently held in Edinburgh — the greatest meeting, perhaps, of 
representative men in all departments of knowledge ever held 
in Britain. 

But it must have been particularly gratifying to Dr. Dawson 
in his absence to know that everything was moving smoothly 
and on the whole very satisfactorily under the management of 
those who were called upon to fill his place. In fact, we can 
think of nothing which should be more gratifying both to him 
and to these gentlemen themselves. 



And the people surged in the entry there, 

For party was at stake ; 

And the whips were worn out with the worry and care, 

And all for the party’s sake : 

Men said the Ministry was doomed, when the Opposition spake. 

Yet again the cheers ringing sharp and shrill, 

From gaping throats upsent ! 

And the loudest of all for the member whose Bill 
Was startling the Parliament : 

Her feeble cheer — she knew not why — with the multitude’s was blent. 

In the land the poor shall for ever be, 

The Christ said that of old ; 

But they ought to abide where the rich cannot see, 

Away from the marts of gold, 

Away from.Senate’s lordly pomp, where the nation’s fame is scrolled. 



The number of students entered in the several faculties 
during the past year was greater than at any previous time in 
the history of the University. In round numbers we may say 
that five hundred Undergraduates were in attendance. An 
increase took place in each of the faculties, except that of Law, 
in which there was a considerable diminution, but in this 
faculty, too, there is the significant fact to be noted that 80 
per cent, of the Undergraduates were Graduates in Arts. Next 
session we look forward to a very considerable increase in this 
faculty as well as in the others, so that from this point of view 
the outlook is entirely encouraging. 

Our losses by death were very serious. Dr. Leach referred 
to these in his Convocation address in such touching terms 



With affairs of state famous “ statesmen” dealt, 

The crisis met its hour ; 

And the Whig fought the Tory, and Saxon fought Celt, 

With boast, in the pride of power : 

The hearts of yore were beating still ; their great England ne’er should cower, 

’Twas a grand debate, and the House was thronged, 

With Commoner and Peer ; 

And they swore that the flag of their country was wronged, 

Away in the southern sphere : 

The woman crawled and huddled down by the bridge’s pathway near. 

And the night crept on, and the votes were cast— 

The old regime was dead ; 

And the beam flashing round lit her face as it passed— 

The soul from its pangs had fled ; 

And silent rose to God’s white throne where the deeds of state are said. 

Montreal. _______ Chas.E. Moyse. 

©ditoriate. 



that we would fain leave what he has said without addition. 

The faculty of Applied Science has made remarkable ad- 
vances since last year. The number of Undergraduates was 
about seventy, a number not so very much short of that in 
the faculty of Arts. It is evident to everyone that very soon 
greater accommodation must be provided for this increasing 
body. A new building is absolutely necessary and must be 
provided very soon. Our readers will remember that a rumour 
reached us during the session to the effect that one of our 
wealthy citizens was soon to erect a building for the accommo- 
dation of this faculty to correspond with the Peter Redpath 
Museum. We hope that before we again assemble this rumour 
will prove to have been well founded. The number of Pro- 
fessors, also, in this faculty is too small, and additions will have 
to be made as soon as sufficient funds are forthcoming for the 



Following the custom of all editors at the close of our labours 
we turn and look back upon the course of events since we were 
entrusted with the management of the Gazette in September 
last. In this retrospective view nothing seems to us to call for 
special notice, for the session just closed may shortly be de- 
scribed as prosperous and uneventful. 



purpose. 

As to the faculty of Medicine it may be said never to have 
been in a more flourishing condition. The number of students 
was larger than ever before, while the teaching staff received 
several additions and underwent several changes which rendered 
it even more efficient than before. 



2 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1884. 



In the sporting world, too, a fair amount of success has fallen 
to our lot. Although our football team was not as successful 
in the earlier part of the season as we could have wished, still 
towards the close some fine playing was done by our men. 
Training and hard practice can alone make up for the disadvan- 
tages under which we lie in football matters, and this fact, we 
hope, will be remembered by the players next year. Our 
hockey club was also very successful, although the team did 
not succeed in winning the carnival cup. Next winter, how- 
ever, we hope to see the cup once more in the hands of old 
McGill. The completion of the track round the football field 
is a matter for congratulation, and those who originated and 
carried out the idea deserve general thanks for their efforts. 
Unfortunately the Inter-University athletic sports did not come 
off last fall as was expected, but we understand that steps have 
been taken towards the organization of such a meeting in Octo- 
ber next. Another matter in which we took a great deal of 
interest was the formation of a University Athletic Association, 
but no action, we are sorry to say, was taken by the Under- 
graduates for the furtherance of the scheme during the session. 
We are glad to know, however, that the sports committee in- 
tend to have this association formed early next year. The 
Lawn Tennis club, too, we understand to have had a very suc- 
cessful season. 

As to ourselves, we have partaken largely of the general 
prosperity. Our financial position is better even than last year, 
and the number of our subscribers greater, whilst we have not 
once had a lack of matter for our columns. We have to thank 
many friends for kind assistance during the year, not a few of 
whom were people unconnected with the University. Indeed, 
it has been a matter of regret to us that while the Professors 
and many outside friends have contributed largely, but very 
few of the Undergraduates themselves have written for us. 
This is the only tiling we have to complain of, and we can only 
hope that our successors will not have even this fault to find 
when they come to lay down the pen. How far we have repre- 
sented the opinions of the students and advanced the interests 
of the paper, is a question which we shall not attempt to answer. 
We shall be content if we shall be found to have improved the 
paper in some slight degree and to have extended its influence. 
The Graduates, we are glad to be able to state, have this year 
evinced much greater interest in our welfare than heretofore, 
and we have several times dfscussed questions in our columns 
of especial interest to them. Among these was the proposal 
made by us for the formation of a University club, a proposal 
which met with very warm approval, and which we hope soon 
to see carried out by the committee of the Graduates’ Society. 
At the annual meeting of this Society held a few weeks ago, 
the desirability of forming a joint-stock company to take over 
the management of the Gazette was discussed, and a committee 
appointed to enquire into the question. What the decision of 
this committee and of the students upon this matter will be we 
do not know, but in any case we ask the present subscribers to 
the University Gazette to continue their interest in the paper 
in the future. 



It has been a matter of very general remark and of general 
congratulation also that during the past session our Medical 
School has been amply provided with subjects, and this without 
the enactment of revolting scenes hitherto very common in this 
city. For this grateful change we have to thank the Provincial 



Anatomy Act passed about a year ago, and amendments to which 
are at present under consideration at Quebec. For the first 
time in the history of this province grave-robbing has been en- 
tirely unknown, and the army of resurrectionists has died out 
because the circumstances which before made the desecration of 
graves necessary, have now ceased to exist. Nothing, in short, 
could be better than the results of the wise legislation of last 
year. But we are very sorry to say that there are not wanting 
a few individuals of quasi-philanthropic tendencies who are at- 
tempting to get up a war-cry against this Act which has already 
done so much for public decency. Some of our daily papers, 
notably the Herald , have lent themselves to this most unreason- 
able agitation. In its decrepit old age the Herald has taken to 
raving, and when not occupied with the Grand Trunk or the 
Court House, the Anatomy Act forms the subject of its hysteri- 
cal editorials. Two things it admits, first, that it is absolutely 
necessary that subjects for anatomical dissection be provided for 
our medical students ; second, that “ body-snatching” is an 
abomination. But very illogically it goes on to attack the Act 
which provides subjects and prevents desecration. The Act 
must be done away with because the aged inmates of our chari- 
table institutions, receiving Government aid, are tortured by the 
thought of what will become of their poor bodies after death. 
This is all, of course, a matter of sentiment, but the Herald is 
a great believer in sentiment. It confesses that what it says 
“ is nothing but sentiment, and sentiment is the largest and best 
part of human life.” But by sentiment the Herald understands 
“ right feeling based upon good sense,” a rather remarkable de- 
finition. But after all this screeching what does this defender 
of the heart as against the head demand or suggest? The editor 
expresses a fear that the students are too prone to be lavish or 
wasteful with their material, and suggests the propriety of sub- 
stituting a wooden model for flesh and bones. At all events he 
thinks one subject should suffice to meet the requirements of a 
complete anatomical education ! One is rather surprised, after 
such suggestions as the above, that the amendments to the Act 
demanded by our sentimental friend, should be so very mild as 
they are. After all his thunderings he only asks that the per- 
manent inmates of our charitable institutions be excluded from 
the practical operation of the law, and that the time allowed for 
the claiming of bodies be somewhat extended. Not very much 
opposition, we imagine, will be made to these amendments. 
The harm which some good people do with the very best of in- 
tentions is very great indeed, and amongst such good people we 
must class those who are worrying themselves over the imagin- 
ary ills resulting from our Anatomy Act. The harm done, how- 
ever, is by no means lessened by the action of these people bein^ 
defended on sentimental grounds, even though the sentiment be 
supposed to be based on good sense. 



At the recent meeting of Convocation several most important 
addresses were delivered. The subject treated by Dr. Johnson 
is one which is at present engaging the attention of all educa- 
tionalists, and it cannot be denied that the experience of our 
Professors affords evidence of a very material character upon the 
point at issue. We were glad to see that the address referred 
to was published in full in one of our daily papers. The ad- 
dress of the Venerable Archdeacon Leach we ourselves give in 
this number. It will be read with pleasure, not alone because 
of the importance of its subject matter and the gracefulness of 
its expression, but also on account of the deep regard in which 



1884.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



3 



our cultured Vice-Principal is held by every person connected 
with the University. 

We congratulate Principal Dawson and the University at 
large upon his reception of the honorary degree of LL.D. from 
Edinburgh University. At the recent tercentenary celebration 
the Senatns Academicus chose over one hundred savants for dis- 
tinction in this way, amongst the number being James Russell 
Lowell, Dr. J. S. Billings, Asst. Surgeon-General, U.S.A., 
Prof. W. A. Green, of Princeton, and Dr. Fordyce Barker, of 
New York. All must be sensible that, through Dr. Dawson, a 
great honour has been conferred upon our University. 



We are glad to see that the Sports Committee has at last 
taken some action in the matter of a University Athletic As- 
sociation. We understand that the draught of a constitution 
has been drawn up, modelled on the constitutions of similar As- 
sociations at Harvard and elsewhere, and that it is to be sub- 
mitted to the Undergraduates in September next. We sincerely 
hope that the efforts of the Committee will be successful, and 
that the existence of the Association will be inaugurated with 
an entirely successful Inter-University meeting. 



We must once more raise our voice against the way in which 
our College grounds are neglected. No sooner had the snow 
disappeared from the surface than the noble army of nurses in- 
vested the north side of the campus, and their small, but inde- 
fatigable, charges proceeded to kill the young grass by playing 
cricket while the ground was still quite wet. But we have 
come to look upon this part of the grounds as belonging not to 
the University but to the Montreal nurses, and we hitherto con- 
soled ourselves with thinking that the other side, at all events, 
might be used by us without our being warned off by some ticket 
holder. But this year we are informed that the whole position 
must be given up to the enemy. The Montreal Football Club 
began to practice before the ground had recovered from the 
effects of the snow and water, but the damage which they did 
was infinitesimal compared with the mischief and annoyance 
caused by about a hundred small boys who have formed a ju- 
venile football club, and call themselves the “ Young McGills.” 
We are informed that the Registrar has apportioned a large 
space to this band, and refuses to allow them to be dislodged as 
they all pay fifty cents or so per annum for their privileges, and 
the impecuniosity of the authorities will not allow this fruitful 
source of revenue to be cut off. So much does this bring in 
that half of one porter's salary, we believe, was once realized in 
an unusually prosperous season. Notwithstanding all this we 
have the temerity to express our opinion that this bonanza 
should be foregone, and all nurses and small boys confined to 
one side of the field if allowed in at all. 



STUDENTS’ PARTING SONG. 
Tune :—Vive la Compagnie, 



Come, all jolly students of any real worth, 

Vive la compagnie ! 

And roll our glad chorus right heartily forth. 

Vive la compagnie ! 



Chorus : — Vive la, 



The spring calls to us with witching looks, 

“ There’s something far better than grubbing ’mong books.” 

The Muses— fine ladies !- from far we admire, 

But give us the girls that set hearts on fire. 



The Greeks and the Romans were men we revere, 
But we’ve had quite enough of them now for a year. 

For Logic- we rather would reason like fools, 

Than learn any more syllogistical rules. 

Of phosphorus, sulphur, and that sort of stuff, 

Pfui ! long ago, surely, we’ve had quantum suff. 

O’er the field of geometry no more we’ll roam, 

But work out the problem to make tracks for home. 



(Sonfribufions. 



The Morality of Shakespeare. 

[Portions of a paper read before the Shakespeare Club of 
Montreal, February 4th, 1884.] 

“ Love's Labour’s Lost” betrays many an evidence of youth. 
It contains that minuteness of detail, particularly in regard to 
quip and pun, which the immature mind displays in lieu of 
comprehensive and manly thought. In so far as it indulges in 
these, it follows the distinctive bent of the age in which it was 
produced. It comes down to us, too, as the most Euphuistic of 
Shakespeare's plays. But this does not prevent it from being 
serious, nor from concealing behind abstruse grotesqueness a 
moral that is equably sustained. The nature of that moral has 
already been glanced at : The folly of taking things as they 
ought not to be taken, of making empty unrealities do duty for 
sober fact. Words are presented to us instead of deeds ; 
shadow instead of substance. 

In order to relieve the weariness of a life that is essentially 
unnatural, in order to vary the monotony of study — and it will 
be observed that study forms the staple of the new regime both 
in Love's Labour's Lost and in the Princess, though from different 
causes and with different motives in either case — there shall be 
laughter for king and lords. Fashionable mirth shall alternate 
with gravity. A man of words fantastical, 

“ A man in all the world’s new fashion planted, 

That hath a mint of phrases in his brain”— 

the Spaniard Armado, is to relate stories of romance. A most 
imposing person, that Armado ! Yet is he weak in exact pro- 
portion to his imposingness. His intellectual food is wretched 
stuff — mere mental milk and water of the poorest quality. He 
is attended by a satellite, Moth (i.e. mote) who has to supply 
brains to his master. Notice the dialogue in Act I. sc. ii., 
where Armado and Moth appear for the first time : “ Boy, what 

sign is it, when a man of great spirit grows melancholy 1” 

“ Comfort me, boy. What great men have been in love ?” 

“ Is there not a ballad, boy, of the King and the Beggar V 
Armado feels that Moth is “ quick in answers” and Shakespeare 
feels that both of them are instruments for showing the inner 
purpose of which he never loses sight. In the spectacle of the 
Nine Worthies, the little page takes the part of Hercules — dis- 
proportion here between show and substance. The Spanish 
Grandee with his fine exterior and his affected mannerism is 
little better than a bird of gaudy plumage, after all. There is 
unreality and disproportion even in clothes : 

Arm.— B y the north pole, I do challenge thee. 

Costard. - I will not fight with a pole, like a northern man ; I’ll slash : 
I’ll do it by the sword. I pray you, let me borrow my arms again. 

Dumain.— Room for the incensed Worthies ! 

Cost. — I’ ll do it in my shirt. 

Dum. — Most resolute Pompey ! 

Arm. — Gentlemen and soldiers, pardon me; I will not combat in my 
shirt. 

Dum.— You may not deny it : Pompey hath made the challenge. 

Arm.— S weet bloods, I both may and will. 

Biron. — What reason have you for’t ? 

Arm.— The naked truth of it is, I have no shirt ; I go woolward for 
penance. 

The ladies, with practicalness and unconventionality that 
throw them into marked contrast to the men, help to display 
the reverse side of matters and to reveal the weakness of the 
other sex. There is much wordy talk of the show sort between 
the King and Lords about their love. Their wooing shall have 
an element of unreality, if possible ; they will press their suits 
in disguise, as Muscovites. But the wcoed are forewarned, and 



4 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1884. 



are quite equal to the occasion. They change favours and pro- 
duce rare confusion. The scheme of the Lords is upset from 
the beginning, and even little Moth, their herald, falls a victim 
to contradictory fact. 

Moth.— “ All hail, the richest beauties on the earth !” 

Boyet.— Beauties no richer than rich taffeta. 

Moth. — “ A holy parcel of the fairest dames, 

[The Ladies turn their hacks to Aim.] 

That ever turn’d their backs to mortal views !” 

Biron.— “ Their eyes,” villain, “ their eyes.” 

Moth. — “ That ever turn’d their eyes to mortal views ! 

“ Out” 

Boyet.— True ; “ out,” indeed. 

Moth. — “ Out of your favours, heavenly spirits vouchsafe 
Not to behold” 

Biron. — “ Once to behold,” rogue. 

Moth. — “ Once to behold with your sun-beamed eyes, with your sun- 
beamed eyes” 

Boyet.— T hey will not answer to that epithet: 

You were best call it daughter-beamed eyes. 

Moth. — They do not mark me, and that puts me out. 

At the end of the play, penance. The men are for wedding 
straightway. But that would never do, so they are commanded to 
face reality without further hesitation. The King is sent off to a 
hermitage ; to some spot where he can examine his intent 
wisely, and where no theoretical plans or distractions of the Ar- 
mado type can militate against the soundness of his conclusions. 
The others are sent into the world itself, and all for a twelve- 
month. As for Biron, the scornful, half-cynical element in him 
is to be corrected by an acquaintance with the sorrows and 
nauseousness of a Hospital, for Elizabethan Hospitals seem to 
have been “ terrible places to work in.” Such then is the con- 
clusion, and although we may say that the women are light 
enough, and cannot for a moment be compared with the im- 
mortal creations that stand in the Dramatist’s later work, yet 
light as they are, they will at least marry sense, and not monas- 
tico-Italianate sentiment. And the Don ? How does he fare 1 
“ I am a votary. I have vowed to Jaquenetta to hold the 
plough for her sweet love three years.” For three years ! And 
for Jaquenetta, of all people ! And the plough ! Perhaps we 
had better leave Love’s Labour’s Lost with Don Adriano de Ar- 
mado at the plough-handle. 

[I am indebted to the lectures of Prof. Henry Morley for 
some of the ideas regarding Love’s Labour’s Lost. What was 
said concerning a Midsummer Night’s Dream need not be re- 
peated, as it would mainly be a r6sum<5 of matter alreadv in 
print.] J 

Chas. E. Moyse. 



A Plea for the Classics. 

It has become the habit recently of many who idolize the 
practical to sneer at classical studies. Most of those who do so, 
however, have not had the advantage of a thorough training and 
sound drill in them. They are, for the most part, men who 
have been shrewdly successful in “ getting on” in the money- 
making sense of that phrase, and who, taking full credit for 
their sagacity, exclaim against any education which does not 
directly aim at being effectively useful in promoting what they 
denominate “ the main chance.” This is a false way of judging 
of the matter. As a man who has been blind from his birth 
would be but a bad authority on the use of eyes, and not a very 
good adviser upon optical contrivances, so a man who has not 
been subjected to the academic discipline of classical study can- 
not rightly adjudicate on the question. The converse argument 
which may be hinted, will not, however, hold ; for as a man 
who is blessed with eyesight can easily experiment upon the 
evils of blindness, by the simple process of shutting his eyes, so 
can the person who has diligently studied the classics dismiss 
pro tempore, the associations he has acquired through them, and 
ask himself what his condition would have been if he had been 
deprived of all those sources of joy which classical studies have 
supplied him with ? It would perhaps seem as ungenerous as 
the twitting of a blind man with his sightlessness, were we to 
attempt to enumerate the various elements of benefit which 
arise from the prosecution of a diligent perusal of the works of 
the chief writers of Greece and Rome, and from that special 
kind of attentive thoughtfulness which is cultured in man by 



acquiring a knowledge of the syntax and construing of the 
ancient languages. We might enlarge at some length on the 
improvement in one own’s language attainable by endeavouring 
to fix in the mind the various fine gradations of meaning implied 
in the accurate translation of exquisite productions of the 
authors usually read in schools and at college ; on the power of 
comparison elicited by the constant need of dismissing the or- 
dinary associations of our life from our minds, and living, in 
idea, the life of the times of other far-distant years, that we may 
get at the standing place for a good view of the meaning of an 
author ; and on the minute and sedulous care which requires to 
be habitually expended on the authors studied, to acquire a mas- 
tery of their meaning and peculiarities. But we shall not ven- 
ture on these topics. Nor shall we ourselves venture on an 
estimate of the worth of the literature of the old ages. As an 
unexceptionable witness on the advantage of Greek culture, we 
might cite Milton, who in his “ Paradise Regained” has left us 
an eloquent tribute to the excellence of the language of Greece ; 
similar evidence might be adduced as to the value of Roman 
literature. We need not, however, do more than advert to the 
names of Horace and Virgil, Cicero and Caesar, Sallust and Livy, 
to show that there are noble associations connected with and 
derived from the classics of Rome. Classical literature possesses 
a real worth and an intrinsic value. This renders it specially 
fitted for being used as a storehouse of the materials for impart- 
ing to our youth the mental wealth of knowledge. As classical 
study effects this, we assert that it finds its fit place in our 
course of education. 

The proper place of classical instruction is to be the basis and 
ground work of a thorough disciplinary training of the youthful 
intellect in the use of language as an expression of thought, as 
a drill in the various methods of written style and thoughtful 
speech, and in the artistic shaping of ideas, so as to accomplish 
their purposes. The classics contain a complete round of de- 
veloped thought connected with a past civilization, in which the 
capabilities and graces of language have been treasured up for 
our learning, for the refinement of our taste, and the culture of 
our style. To these works a vast mass of historical, geograph- 
ical, and philosophical matter accrete, and they form the founda- 
tion and ground-plan on, and according to, which the young may 
be trained to clearness of apprehension, force and neatness of 
expression, and the attentive pursuit of thought through all the 
devious mazes of artistic language. Classics form the model 
studies of our youths ; they are employed to form the centre of 
a whole net- work of associations, and for training the mind to 
the up-building of an idea of a whole framework of life, in which 
the entire development has gone from the earth. The evoking 
of such a power of mind, and of such methods of exercising it, 
cannot fail to be useful ; while no one can readily doubt the ad- 
vantage of possessing a full knowledge of 

“ All the glory that was Greece, all the grandeur that was Rome.” 

In reply to those who speak in derogatory terms of classical 
learning, we may point to the fact, that all our most dis- 
tinguished thinkers and writers have been educated through the 
classics, and hence their whole course of thought is tinged with 
the results of these studies. Often, therefore, to understand 
them a knowledge of classical literature is required. Almost 
every man who has risen to any eminence through his own ex- 
ertions has lamented his deficiency in regard to classical leam- 
ing. They see the advantage in clearness and consecution of 
reasoning which those have acquired who have been made com- 
panions of the great intellects of Rome and Greece ; and they 
have confessed that experience has not granted to them a power 
of insight equal to that implied in classical training. 

The poet, the warrior, the statesman and the moralist may 
alike find in Greek and Roman literature whatsoever is good for 
food or pleasant to the eye. “ Lives there a man with soul so 
dead 1 who cannot appreciate the poetic effusions of Maeonides, 
or of the companions and convivial guests of Maecenas, the sad 
elegiacs of Ovid “ to lonely Tomi banished ;” or the sublimity 
and majesty of Sophocles, rivalled only by the tender and pa- 
thetic style of Euripides ! Let the warrior admire the valour 
and strategy of Hannibal and Caesar, Achilles, Agamemnon and 



1884.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



5 



Hector, even though the military tactics of the soldiers of the 
present day be wide as the poles asunder from those of these 
heroes of old. Does the statesman turn away as finding nothing 
of service to him in steering the ship of Government? Is 
Solon, with his just and equal laws, to be despised ? Does the 
construction of the Roman Republic afford him no insight into 
the principle of sound government ? Is the experience of some 
of the greatest geniuses the world ever produced to be cast aside 
as a thing of no moment ? Let the orator listen to the orations 
of Cicero, and as he listens admire the fiery eloquence tempered 
with the sound philosophy of the Roman elocutionist; and 
whether it be in the public capacity of senator, or in his private 
disputations with his own familiar friends, he, too, will find his 
time amply repaid. Nor need the moralist shun the classic 
groves of ancient lore, as finding there nothing worthy of his 
special attention ; to him, as to others — poet, warrior, states- 
man, orator and philosopher — will it be given to distil nectar 
from these mellifluous bowers. Say not the languages of Greece 
and Rome are dead ; if they are they yet speak, and “ as the 
thoughts of men are widened with the-process of the suns,” we 
need not fear any material decay in the intelligent pursuit of 
languages, replete with whatever is pleasing to the taste or in- 
structive to the mind. 

“ Let them be translated,” say the opponents of culture, by 
means of classical literature. In an objective point of view this 
may be tolerable, but even in that it is open to objection. 
Every one who has given any attention to classical studies must 
have felt the satisfaction to himself, as well as the superior 
light thrown upon the meaning of a passage after a careful 
perusal of the original, as compared with the tame, however 
faithful, English translation. But to insist on the fact of the 
loss sustained by the translation of an author were an unneces- 
sary task, as it is too palpable to admit of dispute. Still let us 
look at this farther, in a subjective light. Suppose a perfect 
translation of every classic author of note were made into the 
English language ; would not one of the principal aims of a 
classical education be lost? Granted that the youth has to 
spend many a laborious day over the acquirement of a know- 
ledge of them (an objection, by the way, which might be urged 
against any branch of science), has he been acquiring nothing 
during all that period except the knowledge of the languages 
themselves ? Has not his mind gone through a course of discip- 
line the most healthy to further development ? Has he not 
been taught to regard with precision every particle that has 
crossed his path ? Has he not obtained a power of expression 
as well as been educated in the process of thinking in a manner 
unattainable by any other process ? Have not his powers of 
discernment and discrimination been exercised in the highest 
possible degree? Have not his tastes been refined, and his 
whole mind moulded and fashioned in a manner fitting him at 
once for the prosecution of the pursuits of the merchant, the 
lawyer, the statesman, or the theologian ? 

The study of modern literature is suggested as a substitute for 
that of classics. Man’s life is said to be too short to admit of a 
profitable study even of the works of men now living ; how ab- 
surd, then, to spend the seventh part of a lifetime, and that the 
most useful for the attainment of knowledge, in the search after 
the truths embodied in the volumes of the ancients, when the very 
study of these precludes the possibility of getting acquainted 
with the language of our own land ! “ Let us take a living 

language,” say the utilitarians, “such as German, would not that 
serve the end ?” Not as do the ancient classics. Go to the 
fountain-head at once if you want to drink the pure waters, and 
benefit by the health-giving influences of soul-cultivating truth ; 
and where is this to be found in unsullied purity but in the 
mother languages ? Besides, the very fact of there being dead 
languages tends all the more to the cultivation of the intellect. 
Memory not needing to clog herself with unnecessary burdens 
after the acquirements of the “ beggarly elements.” The op- 
ponents of the classics argue, further, as if these languages were 
studied to the total exclusion of even the reading of English 
literature, which is contrary to fact, for are not our own classics 
introduced and studied pari passu with Homer and Virgil? 
But even if the schoolboy were prevented by his classical studies 



from reading the English classics, the very time of his leaving 
school is that which may prove the most opportune for the com- 
mencement of that campaign where a solid substratum has been 
laid, and habits of thought formed, which should add in an in- 
finite degree to his intelligent and beneficial pursuit of the study 
of the literature of his own country. 

It is not to be supposed that we make classics everything, far 
less that we wish 'to exclude other useful branches of education 
from our schools ; but we strenuously maintain that for the 
power of culture which they possess, and for the key they afford 
to other stores of knowledge — not to speak of the pleasures re- 
sulting from the study of them — no popular clamor or false in- 
sinuations as to their causing the total neglect of other studies, 
or the sordid desire of becoming wealthy, should in any wise in- 
cline us to reduce the standard in education of the products of 
the minds of men who, living in ages of heathenism, neverthe- 
less framed codes of morality surpassed only by that revealed in 
the unclouded light of Christianity. 

M. 

“ The Ever-Living Life.” 

Chance has thrown in our way a copy of a brand-new poem, 
privately printed for the author. It is a lucky thing for the 
world that at this juncture, when Alfred Tennyson is shelved 
with a peerage, that the author of “ The Ever-Living Life” 
should arise to fill the gap. In many respects it is unique, and 
we freely confess that we never met anything like it before ; 
and further, in many parts it is entirely incomprehensible. 

We shall endeavour to cull a few specimens, in hopes that our 
readers will better understand the author’s aim and objects than 
we have been able to do. The opening of the poem is lofty 
enough : — 

“ Poets ! Ye, who in these regions, through these glimpses of the stars, 
Whereabout this round Earth rolling with an atmosphere debars 
From the sight of flesh-eyed creatures glories that supremely stay, 

Where the lighted constellations up amid the ethers sway : — 

Ye, who through these human regions, voices beautifully raise, 

Captivative of the feelings all throughout the human ways ; 

Ye are they who should be bearers of the topmost flowers of thought 
Into human hearts, receptive ever of true beauties brought.” 

Then the author falls to scolding the poets of the present day 
for having fallen from the “ mettle of their pasture,” as 

“ What are these your teachings lately, through these centuries a few ? 

How have you forgotten grossly what the pristine poets knew ? 

* * * 

A h ! the tunes are not now potent with right paladins of song : 

Ye, who are the poets, truly, have not made your measures strong.” 

and after rating them soundly, and speaking of the later poetical 
productions as'Jittle more than 

“ Cadences on vowels tripping, smoothly consonanted all ; 

Rhymes of perfect termination, charming with their witted fall 

We are told how the author has discovered a theme worthy of a 
great poet, and he breaks forth thus — 

“ Lo ! I see the mighty sunbeams wielding planets in their plight, 

With a mighty, long pulsation, and the daily draught of light ; 

# # # 

A nd I see a theme most worthy, placeless now in human song, 

Though in days of old the singers struck the key-note brief and strong.” 

And so our poet determines to sing the “ Ever-Living Life,’ 
and he certainly does it in a very lofty style, and he tells other 
poets 

“ Open now your eyes and see, ye that would be strong of song ; 

Ye that would with animation lofty lift the world along l 
Open now your eyes and see, with the optics of the mind, 

That within the mind you may, God, your maker, visibly find.” 

He sings of Heaven, 

“ Where the topmost mind of all, 

Topmost mind of all that can be, wraps the universal ball 

In a photospheric raiment, round and round, and round and round, 

Round and round, and round and round, with the glorious raiment wound.” 

No wonder that the writer becomes giddy. Again, when he 
talks about 

“ A levitative essence in a spirit strong,” 
surely can he mean “ gin cocktail ?” 

We had marked some other passages for quotation, but out of 
consideration for our readers we forbear. The author tells us 
that 

“ Politics and economics are but vagaries of the brain, 

Dealing with overwhelming problems, frail and visionary, vain !” 



6 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1884. 



and we conclude that lie has undertaken an overwhelming prob- 
lem ; in one couplet he tells us that 

“ Simple truth alone can say it, and must briefly speak it too, 

Or the verbiage will surely mystify the minded view.” 

and simple truth compels us to say briefly that the book is the 
worst farrago of nonsense it has ever been our misfortune to 
have inflicted upon us. 



©orrespondence* 



Our Irish Letter. 

Dublin, March, 1884. 

We are now half way through what is called the “ Dublin 
Season.” The Viceroy has held two levees which, though not 
so largely attended as last year, were quite up to the aver- 
age, the military and legal professions being most con- 
spicuous. A Fancy Ball, in aid of a Dublin hospital, has 
proved a great success. It was attended by more than twelve 
hundred people, and has brought in a substantial sum to the 
funds of the hospital. The question regarding the amalgama- 
tion of the two branches of the legal profession is the chief topic 
of conversation at the law courts. None but Barristers are per- 
mitted to plead in the Superior Courts, and a Barrister must be 
instructed by a Solicitor, but if there was an amalgamation the 
one man could be instructed by the client, and also advocate 
his cause, which of course would greatly lessen the expense ; 
but cheapness has its disadvantages, and men of great experi- 
ence in both branches deprecate amalgamation very strongly. 

The Centenary of the Royal College of Surgeons, Ireland, has 
just been celebrated. The President (Surgeon W. J. Wheeler) 
entertained the Viceroy and a distinguished company at a ban- 
quet in the College. 

Trinity College, Dublin, cannot boast of any magazine of 
general college news. The only paper issuing from it is a 
monthly one, containing papers written by the Fellows and Pro- 
fessors on classical and scientific subjects. 

Ireland sustained two defeats in football this year, the one 
from England (by one goal) and the other from Scotland. The 
match against England was played in Dublin, and that against 
Scotland in Edinburgh. 

Your Correspondent. 



©oUetje QSort b* 



McGILL. 

The meeting of Convocation for the conferring of degrees in 
the Faculties of Arts and Applied Science took place in the 
Molson Hall, on Wednesday, 30th April. The attendance of 
students and ladies was very large, the former being unusually 
noisy. The proceedings, which were very protracted, were of 
an interesting nature. The Valedictorians were Messrs. J. W. 
Pedley, B.A., and Graham, B. Ap. Sc. Addresses were de- 
livered by Profs. Leach, Johnson and Chandler. The Hon. 
J udge Torrance, Member of Corporation, presided. The address 
of the Venerable Archdeacon Leach, D.C.L., LL.D., was as fol- 
lows : — 

The business of this Session has been brought to a successful conclusion 
and the representative bodies— the Governors, Principal and Fellows of 
the University, and all the Professors— after their hard service, mav be 
happy to interchange congratulations on that account. The Annual 
Official Report, with those of the Committees on the Library and the 
Peter Redpath Museum, have been published and put in the possession of 
all most likely to take an interest in the University, and therefore it is only 
to some few of the matters contained in them that I shall need to advert on 
the present occasion. However pleasant it may be to dwell upon the gains 
we have received, I must, in conformity with the usual practice, advert to 
some of the losses we have sustained. We are informed by men of science 
that m the material world no forces ever perish, and it is pleasing and very 
encouraging to believe that in the other, in whatever term or terms you 
may distinctively designate it, no good work ever perishes, and no good 
man s life is ever lived in vain. It has not been our custom to have set 
panegyrical orations, but as the desire of posthumous reputation or love of 
fame is so natural, and with the young especially so vigorous and useful 
and as it is closely related practically to the moral consciousness, it may not 
be, after all, an infirmity, even in the noblest minds ; and hence it is our 
duty m some form, to take care that the names and good endeavours of 
the benefactors of our race, and among these we reckon the benefactors 



of this College, shall not be hidden, so far as we can prevent it, “ from the 
children of tne generations to come ” And I may add that for this view of 
the subject we have what appears a corroborative authority, “ Verily, I say 
unto you, wherever this Gospel shall be preached in the whole world, that 
also which this woman hath done, shall be spoken of for a memorial of 
her.” 

The decease of the Chancellor, Mr. Justice Day, has been spoken of 
twice before in this Hall— once by His Excellency the Governor-General, 
who, in graceful and appropriate language, gave us a faithful representation 
of his character and public services, and again by Mr J ustice Mackay, with 
similar effect, in his formal address at the last meeting of Convocation. 
We are all well aware of the magnitude of our loss. Let us hope it may 
not be too long before we see his like again. 

There is another loss to which reference must needs be made — that oc- 
casioned by the death of Dr. Scott ; there are many here who mark the ab- 
sence of tne erect and manly countenance, not soon to be forgotten, and 
whenever remembered to be associated "with respect and kindly regard for 
the man who, for many years, endeavoured by his labours and counsel to 
make the Medical Faculty the eminently useful member of the University 
which it is. And yet another loss in one who, for many years, was sent up 
a representative Fellow from the Medical Faculty. It is difficult to men- 
tion the name of Dr. Reddy without emotion. No one could have any ac- 
quaintance with him without being more than pleased with the benevolence 
apparent in all that he said or did, and the sweet fragrance of the virtue 
which so fully inhabited him, seems to return to us afresh with every act of 
memory that recalls him. 

It appears from the Official Annual Report that the number of students 
in the Faculty of Applied Science is nearly seventy. This expansion, dur* 
ing the lapse of a few years, is very significant of the progress of Physical 
Science, and, considering what was requisite for the staff of Professors and 
the cost of the appaiatus required for the work of this Faculty, we cannot 
sufficiently value the generosity of those who have made it possible for them 
to prosecute their work. The cost, multiplied a thousand times, forms 
part of the national wealth through the labours and science of the men from 
this College, along with others, of course, who have been employed in un- 
folding the natural resources of the Dominion. One element of success has 
been supplied to the contentment of all ; I allude to the Peter Redpath 
Museum, which, in respect of extent and the completeness of its scientific 
arrangement, I am informed by a most competent authority, Dr. Egleston, 
of New York, ranks third on the Continent of America. Much, however, 
is still needed to complete the apparatus, particularly a machine for testing 
the strength of materials, and additional accommodation is imperative if 
more students are to be admitted. 

This University is fortunate in another respect, for which it is indebted, 

I believe, to some happy inspiration of the productive genius of Principal 
Dawson. There stand affiliated to it several Theological Colleges, and 
these of the principal Protestant Churches in the city ; and this I regard 
as one of the most promising events that have occurred in the history of 
this part of the Dominion. While it was inevitable that each should build 
on the like old foundations, and use the same old kind of bricks that were 
used by the old master builders in the mother country in the construction 
of their edifices, some of which, not much the worse from age, still stand — 
and may they stand till doomsday — this was inevitable, and as it still must 
be that the same forms, and these, I suppose, with all their contents, con- 
tinue, yet, as there is so much truth in them all, and that truth the per- 
petual element, the original reason of their existence at all, and as they all 
level at the same object — the salvation of sinful men — why may not one say 
“ Ye are brethren.” Why not believe it and act upon it as far as possible ? 
Resigning at once the unitas in credendo , that only renders it the more 
necessary to have far more abundantly the unitas in colendo , and the facts 
that the Principals, Doctors and Professors of those Colleges here meet to- 
gether to deliberate in common on subjects deeply interesting to all alike, 
and that so many students from them prosecute here together a material 
part of their studies, are an indication that this blessed spirit has already 
made some progress, and gives reasonable ground for the hope that it may 
become publicly realised to the delight and example of the great majority 
of all rational and God-fearing men. 

In this relation that now so happily subsists, we fain hope we have a 
guaranty that the physical sciences will not monopolise the activity and 
might of the University. The ancient kinds of learning and some sciences 
older than any which the I acuity of Applied Science claims as its own, 
must needs hold their place through all the fierce pell-mell of material pro- 
gress. Philosophy ana learning, in each successive century from the early 
times of Christianity,* have found in the Church their hereditary seat. 
They are a charge entailed upon her and the several churches which are, in 
a manner, incorporated with this University, have clearly shown their de- 
termination to assume the charge. 

The Greek and Latin languages must always form a necessary part of 
the curriculum of students of Divinity, and we may rest nearly certain that 
there will always.be some among them who will make these languages, and 
the literature which they comprehend, their special pasture. 

For the same reason I anticipate for the chair of Mental and Moral Phi- 
losophy, I need not say additional security, for under any circumstances it 
must be regarded as a fixture, but vastly augmented usefulness. Having a 
peculiar interest in the subject for which it is established, the Church can- 
not fail to shield and maintain it ; she requires its teaching both for defence 
and nourishment. \\ hatever the solidity of the rock that is her support 
historically, all are not equally influenced by the same representations, 
and, speaking from experience, I should say that it is the moral and spiri- 
tual element m Christianity — the indwelling divine spirit — that mainly per- 
suades and captivates the heart to faith in Christ and obedience to His 
words. At any rate, for students of Divinity, and I should say students of 
Law also, no subject of study is more imperative than ethics. We need, 
above all things, the basis of ethics that forms part of our philosophical 
course. Phere seems to be a very common belief that moral laws or rules 
ia J-? ^ .J r in human invention — that any religion may make them 

arbitrarily— that any ecclesiastical council, order or synod, any parliament 
or senate, any society, company or club or clique whatsoever, may fashion 
them for their own convenience, and that they need no better sanction than 



1884.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



7 



their owti authority. Many years ago, in Toronto, a man tampering with 
the loyalty of a soldier of the 93rd Regiment, urged that his occupation as 
a soldier was “ contrary to the laws of God.” “ Ou, yes replied the 
Highlander, “but ye ken the military is governed by a law of its ain.” 
The soldier, I know, did not express all his better belief, but he found the 
case rather a hard one ; he was no casuist, yet his words, literally taken 
denote the sin and error of prevaricating the God-given laws whence are 
formed derivatively the conceptions and beliefs that ought universally to 
regulate the conduct of rational human beings. “ Let us all be governed 
by a law of our ain” is the lowest reach of impiety or moral idiocy. 

The affiliation of the Theological Colleges sooner or later, if the 
friendly spirit adverted to prevail, may lead to some great improve- 
ment in the educational system of the province. However admirable, as 
compared with many others, like them, it is defective in one respect by no 
means immaterial. Is it not desirable that the youth of the land during 
their years at school should be instructed with all possible care, among the 
first things needful for their life on earth, in their duties to God and man ? 
Y ou cannot leave this to the parents ; fathers are too much occupied with 
their business, mothers are careful and troubled about many things ; the 
Sunday Schools are worthy of all praise, and never can be too much en- 
couraged nor too much attention paid to the character and gifts of the 
teachers, and yet it will be hardly denied that it is from the other schools 
and the academies that the determining influences come, which chiefly form 
the character of pupils, so far as it can be affected by external conditions. 
We hear it often insisted upon that some of the subjects introduced into 
the schools are so efficacious as intellectual training, called by a fallacy men- 
tal training, as if the former kind were the whole of man. Is moral and 
religious instruction not a good kind of training ? Among so many arts 
taught, why exclude the art of righteousness? Why refuse them the 
crumbs that fall from the Master’s table ? Except on the plea of necessity 
nothing can justify the exclusion, and though I acknowledge that the facts 
of history are not very encouraging to one’s best hopes, yet it does seem in- 
credible that this necessity should be perpetual, and that so many of the 
kind of men connected with the several colleges and schools, all so deeply 
interested in the subject, many of them of much experience and devoted to 
the cause of public instruction, should not be able to devise some plan 
offensive to no man’s conscience that has light in it, to supply this 
want — to stop up this avernal gap that lies between the stage to which the 
present system has advanced, and the fulfilment of its end. 

In the course of the summer we hope to have the honour of receiving in- 
to the halls of the College a great number of the members of the British 
Association for the Advancement of Science. This expectation appears to 
inspire all classes with unfeigned satisfaction. I have heard no voice out 
of harmony with the general feeling. Many books have been lately pub- 
lished with the professed object of reconciling religion and science or science 
and religion, as if this were demanded by some peculiar necessity of the 
times ; and apprehension of this kind seems to have existed from the be- 
ginning. St. Paul pronounces the emphatic warning— “ Beware lest any 
man spoil you through philosophy and vain deceit.” Hence, many young 
persons especially may be disposed to take up some prejudice against 
Philosophy and Science, for these are not always distinguished, as if they 
were naturally antagonistic to true religion. As to. St Paul’s warning, he 
cannot mean all Philosophy, for, in that case, what is to be said of his own. 
His warning is correctly given in the New Version — “ Take heed lest there 
shall be any one that inaketh spoil of you through his philosophy and vain 
deceit.” Many of the best masters of philosophy and science and of other 
kinds of learning hold truth too much in honour, and love the well-being of 
men too well to justify the hasty conclusion that they are necessarily 
“against us,” and some of them we are certain are decidedly “ for us.” and 
upon the whole it seems a warrantable persuasion that Philosophy and 
Learning will, as ever before, do good service in the Kingdom of God, and 
prove able auxiliaries in support of the Crown of Christ. In the meantime 
Cicero’s advice in reference to the disputations of the Academicians and 
Stoics of his day, may be thought worthy of some consideration — “ Let it 
be understood that there be between them, as it were, a neutral ground, 
such as the Laws of the Twelve Tables ordain shall subsist between the 
properties of different landlords.” 

There is another point which I beg leave to suggest for deliberation to 
the Faculties concerned. It may be assumed as admitted that those of 
Medicine and Law would greatly benefit and elevate their professions if 
the regular course in Arts were made imperative. If this should be judged 
to be impracticable, the full course in mental and moral philosophy might 
not occupy the time of the student detrimentally. It is a species of know- 
ledge cognate with what both Faculties profess to give. How often has the 
physician while he endeavours to remove “ the perilous stuff that weighs 
upon the heart” physically, to take into consideration the state of the mind, 
and in the case of Law it is essential, supposing it to be necessary to study 
with any care the original principles from which all Law, except physical 
laws, are derived, ana necessary it is, if a succession of fit and able persons 
is to be found to occupy the high places of the field, the statesmen of the 
land, and the judges, many such as we hitherto have had and have here 
still on the Bench, men accomplished in their special science, in all its ex- 
tent, and other learning, courageous, incorruptible and independent So 
long as we have such as these tnere is some hope for us whatever races of 
men fill the future Canada. 



The Graduating Classes in Arts and Applied Science were 
entertained at dinner by the Undergraduates in the two Facul- 
ties, at the Windsor Hotel, on the evening of the 30th., Mr. 
C. AY. Trenholme, B.A., occupying the chair. It is unnecessary 
to say that a most enjoyable and a most noisy time was spent 
by those present. The classes graduating this year have been 
noted not only for their intellectual prowess, but for their 
fine social qualities as well. “ Oratus multa prece , nitere porro . 
Vcvle, ValeP 



University Literary Society. 



On the evening of the 28th April the Ladies 7 Ordinary at the 
AVindsor was crowded to its utmost capacity by a large audience 
who had been invited by the Society to attend their twenty- 
first public meeting where they would be entertained by, as the 
card of invitation stated, an 

“ Adres buy dhe Prezident, Mr. Charles J. Doherty, B.C.L., 
“Dibeit; Shuid Fonetik Speling by yuizd tin reprizent dhe 
wardz oy uwr Ingglish langgwej 'i 

J. Ralph Murray, B.A., 

Albert J. Brown, B.A. 

Raleigh J. Elliot, 

John F. Mackie, B.A.” 

So large a number did this bring together that seats were at 
a premium long before the business of the evening began, and 
many persons were content to take advantage of a seat in the 
corridor or a convenient wall, rather than miss the “ dibeit.” 
The address by the President has already been published by 
one of our daily papers, which makes it unnecessary for us to 
give it here. 



Aformativ : 
Negativ : 



Mr. Murray opened the debate as follows : — 

Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen,— The subject chosen for our 
consideration this evening is one which at first sight may appear to many 
of you to be of an unpractical and uninteresting character. Those of you 
who have already studied and reflected upon this question of phonetic 
spelling, and who have carefully examined the pretensions of those who 
take the view of the case which it is our honour on the affirmative to up- 
hold this evening, will look upon this subject with no contemptuous 
regard, and I feel very confident indeed that when, later on, the vote 
comes to be taken, your decision will unhesitatingly be given in support of 
a reform which you cannot fail to have recognized as reasonable and very 
necessary. But when I come to consider the little attention which has 
been paid to this question in Canada, when I remember the comparative 
ignorance in which many of us have lived as to the strides which the agita- 
tion for spelling reform is making, and the proportions which it is assum- 
ing in the mother country at the present day, it is but natural for me to 
suppose that there are many amongst those whom I am now addressing 
who have hitherto looked upon this scheme of phonetic spelling as about 
the most impracticable which it has ever entered into the mind of man to 
advocate, that the idea was entertained chiefly by cranks, or at the most 
was useful only as affording amusement of a literary nature to the most 
visionary scholars. To those who have thought thus, if any there be here, 

I wish to say that no more erroneous idea was ever entertained by them ; 
and I feel sure that before this debate has come to an end they will be 
ready to acknowledge such to be the case. I have never been much in- 
clined to advocate reforms as we generally understand them, simply 
because they went by the name of reforms ; indeed, by nature and associa- 
tions I am opposed to all radical changes, and yet as I stand up this even- 
ing to advocate this change in our mode of spelling, I feel that the reform 
is no ordinary one, I feel that as it is one of the vastest social and literary 
importance, embracing millions upon millions of people in its effects, so, 
too, it is one into whicn I can enter with the greatest enthusiasm of which 
I am capable, one which it confers honour upon me to be allowed to sup- 
port. Most vivid is my consciousness at the present moment of the enor- 
mous importance of this grand, this far-reaching reform, but almost as 
deep is the regret which is present with me that the advocacy of such a 
noble cause should, on such a propitious occasion as the present, be en- 
trusted to the hands of those so little capable of doing justice to it. 

As the time allotted to me is not veryjong, I shall content myself with 
giving a very general idea of the scheme of phonetic spelling as it is sought 
to be introduced into the English language. I shall draw, as it were, a 
rough outline of the plan which we are advocating, leaving the interstices 
and omissions to be filled in by my learned friend who is to support me. 
It would be impossible, and I think wholly undesirable for me to attempt 
to enter into the minute details of the technical part of this subject ; nor 
does, indeed, a knowledge of these details seem to me at all necessary for 
the full understanding of the desirability of spelling reform. Glancing at 
the meaning of language in general, and at the development of written 
lauguage from spoken, I shall go on to refer briefly to those points in 
which the English language fails to come up to the ideal of a perfect 
written language, to those respects in which it falls short of what it ought 
to be. Then by drawing your attention to the disastrous results flowing 
from these imperfections I shall show you that reform is necessary and 
possible ; I shall show you that if this system which we propose be 
adopted, we shall not only remove the imperfections in our spelling, but 
we shall also, as a consequence of this, do a monumental service to millions 
of our race in this and succeeding ages. But it is not to be supposed that 
such a drastic improvement as this can be carried out without its encoun- 
tering the sharpest criticism and the most determined opposition. We 
shall glance, therefore, at some of the most important objections which 
have been raised to the scheme, and I shall attempt to show you how these 
objections are almost entirely groundless, and certainly not of sufficient 
weight to stay the progress of this inevitable amelioration. I have not the 
slightest doubt that our friends on the opposite side when they come to 
reply will refer to some of these flimsy objections from their point of 
view, and will lay a great deal of stress upon them, but I have no fear of 
their imposing upon you. 

Finally, I shall mention the names of a few of those who are supporting 
this noble cause in England and the United States, in order that you may 
understand that this is no mere visionary proposal which is made, but one 
that emanates from persons of the greatest renown, and from those pos- 
sessing the greatest experience in educational matters. 



8 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1884. 



Language, as you all know, is the means by which thought is com- 
municated, and spoken language that particular method in which this end 
is effected by means of the voice. Now, written language is an invention 
of man in which, by employing a set of symbols sufficiently distinct in 
outline and easy of formation, corresponding with the elementary sounds 
of the spoken language, thoughts are capable of being communicated and 
preserved. What is the process by which this written language is arrived 
at? The spoken language is first analyzed and the elementary sounds 
determined, which in varying combinations form the several spoken words. 
Next, a symbol is arbitrarily chosen to represent each of these elementary 
sounds, so that by combining the symbols in different ways, any word in 
the spoken language can be represented and recalled. Finally, by the 
power of instantaneous association the written symbols come to represent 
directly the thought of which the spoken word was the expression. 
Clearly, then, written language first proceeds on purely phonetic principles. 
No one has so far been found to controvert this. The inventors of written 
language made it their aim to reduce the language to writing exactly as it 
was spoken, and they had primarily no idea of forcing their symbols to 
represent some grammatical or etymological facts. Their aim, I repeat, 
was purely phonetical. 

Keeping this in mind, what do we find to be the requisites of a perfect 
written language? We find them to be these. First, each distinct ele- 
mentary sound should have one symbol to represent it, and one symbol 
only. Second, each symbol should represent one sound only. Third, the 
symbols should be distinct in formation and easily written. 

Now, let us examine how far the English language fulfils these con- 
ditions ; let us see how much it resembles a perfect written language ! 

On the third requisite I shall not dwell, because you all know of and 
understand the benefits of the changes that have been introduced during 
the latter half of this century in the method of writing English. Not only 
is shorthand an inestimable boon to those engaged in that most laborious 
but very noble profession of journalism, and therefore a boon to every 
reader in the world, but it is already beginning to affect, and in the future 
it will continue to affect more largely the education of nearly every person 
in the civilized world. I ask you when reflecting upon this to remember 
that the principle forming the basis of the most approved method of 
shorthand is the principle we are advocating to-night, and that the 
single-hearted and clear-minded man who bestowed upon us the blessings 
of phonetic shorthand is the same man who to-day with a self-sacrifice and 
a devotion worthy of the cause, in his seventieth or eightieth year, at a 
period when other men are thinking rather of taking their rest, is still 
waging an unrelenting warfare against the monstrosity of our present 
method of spelling. That man is Mr. Isaac Pitman ! 

But let us hasten to enquire as to the other necessary conditions. Does 
the same symbol in English always represent the same sound under the 
same circumstances ? At once we learn from the number of the letters in 
our alphabet that this is utterly impossible. There are at the very least 
36 distinct elementary sounds in our language, viz., 24 consonants, p b t d 
ch j k g f v th (thin) dh (then) s z sh zh (vision) m n ng 1 r h w y ; and 12 
simple vowels, as in the words at, alms ; ell, earn (urn) ; ill, eel ; not, naught 
note ; nut, put, rule ; besides o diphthongs, ui or uy (guide, buy), ei or ey 
(veil, they*), oi or oy (coin, boy) ; uw (out, now) ; and yui (new, use). 

To represent all these we have an alphabet of 26 letters, of which c a 
and x are unnecessary as duplicates of k , ks or gz. * 

Clearly, then, some of our symbols must have different meanings at 
different times, which is contrary to one of the conditions which we recog- 
nized as fundamental to a good written language. But this fault would 
not be so very damaging if there were any means by which one could tell 
when the letters have one meaning and when they have another, and also 
when they have no meaning at all. For you must remember that each 
letter of the alphabet, except j, is sometimes mute. 

The following are examples of such words 

Isaac, de&t, scene, (drac/im), riband, hate, stif/, smaw (strai^t), heir 
business, fcnow, sa/mon, ; mnemonics, hymn, double, ^salm, Colouhoun err 
(myrra), isle, often, build, serenmght, who, billetdous, eyot, rendezvous 

But, alas! the ingenuity of man has hitherto been found insufficient 
to formulate a rule which will enable the reader to distinguish the different 
values of the symbols, and consequently on this score the present method 
of writing our language must be pronounced deficient. 

Next let us ask if in the mode of spelling which we at present adopt 
the same sound is, under the same circumstances, always represented bv 
the same symbols. That this is not so, is seen from the fact that we have 
numbers upon numbers of words pronounced alike and spelled differentlv 
and also from the fact that some of our letters have identically the same 
sounds, as for instance c in cat and k in kitten. 

So that in respect of both of our important conditions our language as 
we spell it at present fails to exhibit the requisites of a good written 
language. 

Examples of the facts here noted will occur to the minds of all of vou 
by hundreds, but a few examples may be given : J 

Thus among the vowels a has different sounds in apron, father water 

itlV. h Jit llPCrnrQT • rt m hofo liotm • /■«> «*« j i i ^ ^ 




grief, pitied, friend, lie; o in not, go, do, woman, women, son, compter- 
00 in cupboard, board, broad ; oo in brooch, brood, flood, wood, zoologv • 
<m m ought, soul, soup, hough, double, would, noun ; u in nut, unruly* 
busy, bury, pull, use, persuade, lieutenant. y ’ 

There are 110 such combinations, having 353 meanings. 

Among consonants bb in ebb, clubbook ; c in can, cell, vermicelli, sacri- 
fice, special ; cc m account, accent ; ch in architect, arch, chaise ; q in gem 
geese, rouge; * m except, beaux, vex, exalt; z in mezzotint, zeal, azure! 
Of these there are 119, with 251 meanings. In learning to read, therefore 
muteneS ^ * etter8 an< ^ digraphs, to master, with 604 sounds, excluding 

On the other hand, the same sounds are represented in many wavs-— 
at, Isaajc, plaid, Michael have ; alms, father, are, ah ; ell, heifer, leopard 
head, allege, f nend, lieutenant, bury, said ; earn, her, fir, myrrh, word,’ 



journey, urn, hauteur; ill, busy, build, forfeit, breeches, guinea, beaufin, 
Theobald, turkey, prairie, felloe ; chamois, eel, be, heal, Beauchamp, here, 
conceit, people, key, invalid, pique, field, Caesar, oesophagus, mosquito ; 
not, forehead, hough, knowledge, was ; naught, all, broad, law, ought, 
extraordinary ; note, no, know, oats, Pharoah, hoe, oh, hautboy, floor, soul, 
though, owe, sew, yeoman ; rule, truth, fruit, do, move, ooze, soup, shoe, 
through, galleon, Reuben, brew ; put, wood, could ; nut, son, flood, does, 
one, touch ; buy, guide, fire, die, by, Mackay, aisle, deipnosophist, height, 
eye, I ; veil, they, apron, Aaron, ale, dahlia, aerie, sail, gaol, gauge, say, 
great ; boy, coin ; out, now, caoutchouc, Macleod, plough ; use, hue, Zebu, 
you, lieu, few, beauty, view, suit, ewe, Europe, feod. 

Among the consonants^ is written as in pay, hiccough, wrapped ; b as 
in be, ebb, cupboard ; t as in ten, debt, yacht, thyme, indict, two, mezzo- 
tint ; ch as in chain, match ; j as in just, Greenwich, soldier, judgment, 
gem, college ; m as in man, Campbell, Banff, lamb, phlegm. 

For the 41 sounds there are 658 combinations used, of which the above 
are examples. Of these 658 symbols 379 are entirely different from one 
another. 

Instead therefore of 41 signs, each with a single sound, there are 379 
symbols, with 658 meanings to be mastered in order to be able to write Eng- 
lish correctly. 

In addition to this I may just mention to you that there are already 
nearly 1,500 words which are spelled in more than one way — a very serious 
matter indeed. Thus there are thousands of words in which it is disputed 
whether the termination should be in or or our , as honour ; in ise or ize f as 
authorize ; in re or er 9 as centre ; whether to write traveller or traveler. Be- 
sdes these large classes there are thousands more of individual words such'as 
aerie, ayry, eyry ; almonry, almry, ambry; ingraft, engraft, ingraff ; extacy, 
ecstacy, ecstasy ; adze, addice; hollo, halloo, hollow ; peddler, pedlar, 
pedler ; patrol, patroll, patrole ; balk, baulk, bauk ; mattress, matress, 
mattrass ; cigar, segar ; ribbon, riband, ribband, ribbin ; scissors, cissors, 
cizarz, scissars ; mocassin, moccason, maggason ; capucche, capuchin, cap- 
ashaw; seamstress, sempstress. 

But I do not suppose that our friends opposite will have the 
temerity to dispute the statement I have just made, the statement 
that the present alphabet, used as we use it at present, and considered as 
the groundwork of a system of orthography in which the phonetic system 
prevails, is an entire failure. 

The next step in our enquiry is to weigh the results that flow from our 
present faulty method of spelling. 

One result of our letters representing different sounds at different times 
is this, that the pronounciation of words cannot be divined with the slightest 
degree of certainty from their orthography, and that the orthography can- 
not be deduced from the sound of the spoken word. As a consequence of 
the former of these facts, it is found that foreigners experience the greatest 
difficulty in arriving at the pronounciation of our otherwise easily attained 
language. A German Doctor, in an English grammar which he wrote for 
the use of his countrymen, gave no less than 121 pages of rules for the pro- 
nounciation of the different letters of our alphabet, and the rules were such 
that an Irishman would say that they were all exceptions. As an illustra- 
tion of the difficulty which foreigners experience in acquiring the correct 
pronounciation of our language, I may mention an incident which befell a 
learned French Professor on his first visit to London. The gentleman to 
whom I refer had studied English at the French University, and had made 
as much progress in it as it was possible for him to do under the circum- 
stances. It happened that on his passage across the Channel he contracted 
a violent cold, so that on his arrival in the metropolis he was obliged to 
send for a physician. In the interim, wishing to show Dr. John Bull how 
well he could talk English, he took a dictionary and found that toux was 
cough in the latter tongue. 

“ C-o-u-g-h” spelled the Frenchman, “how they say that? I have 
him. P 1-o-u-g-h is plow , and c-o-u-g-h is cow. I got a cow.” 

The doctor entered and began to feel his pulse where all seemed right. 

“I have no trouble dare,” said the Professor, putting his hand to his 
throat, I got a cow. 

Well, I m not a cow doctor !” said the doctor, indignantly ; “ why do 
you send for me to see your cow ?” 

“But you wiH not understand me” said the discomfited Frenchman, 
here is my cow— here,” and he thumped his breast in desperation. 

The doctor shook his head, as though he thought him demented. The 
Professor had again recourse to his dictionary, thinking if he got the precise 
locality of his cow, the doctor would understand. Accordingly he looked 
for the word “ chest,” and found the first definition to be “ a box ;” then 
shoutingas loud as he could, he exclaimed, I got a cow in my box 1 

The Doctor burst into a roar of laughter, and the poor Frenchman died 
of chagrin, all because the word cough was not spelt cof. 

Here, then, we see the first practical benefit which would arise from the 
adoption, in our language, of the phonetic system ; foreigners would be 
enabled to acquire the language with infinitely less trouble than at present, 
and thousands would be saved years of drudgery and vexation. The only 
answer which I can conceive of my friends opposite making to this argu- 
ment is one which I am very sure they will not make. They might answer 

-rn W 1 ? fL° n ^ ei ff ner ^ \° learn our language, and that the more 
difficult they find it to learn the better. Such an answer might be'expected 
from an uneducated partisan of our present mode of spelling, but certainly 
not from gentlemen of the ability of our opponents this evening. 

But how does the same fact affect ourselves? Recognising that no rules 
can be arrived at for guidance in pronounciation we teach our children to 
read each word separately, as a new symbol to be committed to memory* 
and in teaching to write or spell the language we make the child learn by 
heart the names of the alphabetical elements of the word (which have sel- 
dom anything to do with its sound), for every common word in the lan- 
guage. Thus for a complete knowledge of the language, instead of the 
child haying to learn only thirty or forty distinct symbols, he has to learn 
separately 90,000 distinct words. For it is a truth beyond the power of 
argument to gainsay that no Englishman feels certain of the pronounciation 
of an English word which he has only seen written and never heard spoken, 
and the chances against his .writing correctly a word which he has never 
seen, but only heard, are still more numexous. These difficulties must be 
very familiar to every one of you, but just as an example let me mention the 
interesting fact that the word scissors can be spelt in 58 million different 



1884 .] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



0 



ways, each of which can be supported by examples of analogous spellings 
thus S is represented in 17 ways ; short I in 36 ; Z in 17 : E in 33 • R 
in 10 ; Z m 17, and these multiplied together, 

17 x 36 x 17 x 33 x 10 x 17=58,366,440. 

So that in this particular case the chances that a person who had only 
heard this word would spell it incorrectly are about 58 millions to one. 

What is the practical meaning of all this? It means the loss of three or 
four years of precious time by every child who learns to read and spell ; it 
means days and months and years of useless drudgery for both teacher and 
pupil ; it means that years which might, if the Phonetic System were 
introduced, be employed by our children in acquiring useful knowledge, 
are now squandered in unnecessarily loading their memories and breakfng 
their hearts *, it means that 90 per cent, of the pupils in the schools of Eng- 
land go out into life unable to read a paragraph from a newspaper intelli- 
gently ; it means that 15 millions of dollars are annually thrown away in 
England alone ; it means that the English national education is a failure ; 
it means that ignorance prevails through the land. Here is our great ar- 
gument for phonetic spelling, which no objection from our friends opposite 
can shake. They will tell you, no doubt, in the most eloquent terms, as 
they are well able to do, that we want to destroy the etymological and his- 
torical value of our language, and a great many more things of the same 
kind. A weighty thing indeed to counterpoise agaiust the blessings of the 
phonetic system ! Forsooth, our children are to be compell d to waste 
from four to seven years of their short lives because some people have an 
idea that the new system would destroy our etymology. I appeal to you, 
especially to those of you who have ever in the course of your lives been 
engaged in the profession of teaching, and a very noble profession it is, I 
appeal to you it it would not be an inestimable blessing to the race if boys 
and girls, old men and women, could learn to read and write within the 
short space of six or twelve months. If there are any sisters here who 
have helped to teach their younger brothers to read ; if there are any elder 
brothers who have helped their sisters as they toiled day after day over 
those miserable pothooks and hangers, if there are any such here, and I am 
sure there are, I appeal to them to give their vote this evening in favour of 
the system which will bring emancipation, power and happiness with it. 

But besides the utter waste of time involved in learning to read, a great 
mischief is done to the minds of the children by subjecting them to such 
unsound teaching. Hear what Max Muller, probably the greatest living 
philologist, says upon this point : — 

“ What, however, is even more serious than all this, is not the great 
waste of time in learning to read, and the almost complete failu. e in na- 
tional education, but the actual mischief done by subjecting young minds 
to the illogical and tedious drudgery of learning to rtad English as spelt at 
present. Everything they have to learn in reading (or pronunciation) and 
spelling is irrational : one rule contradicts the other, and each statement 
has to be accepted simply on authority, and with a complete disregard of 
all those rational instincts which lie dormant in the child, and ought to be 
awakened by every kind af healthy exercise. 

“ I know there are persons who can defend anything, and who hold that 
it is due to this very discipline that the English character is what it is : 
that it retains respect for authority ; that it does not require a reason for 
everything ; and that it does not admit that what is inconceivable is there- 
fore impossible. Even English orthodoxy has been traced back to that 
hidden source, because a child accustomed to believe that though is 
though, and that through is through, would afterwards believe any- 
thing. It may be so ; still I doubt whether even such objects would justify 
such means. 

“ But with all that, the problem remains unsolved. What are people 
to do when language and pronunciation chauge, while their spelling is de- 
clared to be unchangeable ? It is, I believe, hardly necessary that I should 
prove how corrupt, effete, and utterly irrational the piesent system of 
spelling is, for no one seems inclined to deny all that. I shall only quote, 
therefore, the judgment of one man, the late Bishop Thirl wall, a man who 
never used exaggerated language. 4 1 look,’ he says, * upon the established 
system, if an accidental custom may be so called, as a mass of anomalies, 
the growth of ignorance and chance, equally repugnant to good taste and 
to common sense. But I am aware that the public cling to these anomalies 
with a tenacity proportioned to their absurdity, and are jealous of all en- 
croachment on ground consecrated by prescription to the free play of blind 
caprice.* ** 

After considering these things who will assert that Reform is not ne- 
cessary ? 

Again, the ignorance of so many grown up people at the present day 
may be traced to the same source. In England alone. there are about five 
million grown-up people who cannot read. Why is this ? Because, in the 
words of Maria Edgworth, one of the most famous of educationalists, * the 
labour and disgust of learning to read render it the most difficult of all 
human attainments. ** This, however, can all be changed by the introduc 
tion of the phonetic system, which is so simple that it does not necessarily 
require the additioa of a new lettter to our present alphabet, but only that 
the present letters be used in a different way, though it would be more 
satisfactory for each simple elementary sound to have a single sign. Our 
present spelling we must consider not only a scientific failure, but also a 
moral failure, because it deprives a large proportion of our population of 
the enjoyment of one of the most indispensable blessings of civilized life 
the power to read, 

Many other evil results attendant on our present mode of spelling occur 
to my mind, but time will not permit me to dwell upon them. My learned 
friend who is to follow me on the same side will, I daresay, refer to some 
of these points. Amongst other things our present spelling occasions great 
difficulties to those who endeavour to reduce unwritten languages to writ- 
ing ; it obscures the names of persons and places, and it disables us from 
ascertaining the real condition of our spoken language, even a few hundred 
years back. . . . , . 

Amongst the incidental advantages of phoneticism I may mention tnat 
the system will cause a diffusion of correct pronunciation over the whole 
Empire, and wi'l tend to do away with provincial dialects ; that it will di- 
minish the number of letters with which it is necessary to write a word, 
and reduce the bulk and therefore the expense of our books by about one- 
tenth . 



Summing up, then, the advantages of phonetic spelling, we see that : — 

(1.) It will render reading easy. 

(2.) It will render spelling easy. 

(3.) It enables the student, as soon as he has learned the phonetic alpha- 
bet thoroughly, to spell any word with the same accuracy that he can pro- 
nounce it. 

(4.) It renders the task of learning to read delightful to teacher and 
learner. 

(5.) It will consequently tend to remove the present ignorance of the 
poorer classes. 

(6.) It will render the language less difficult for foreigners. 

(7.) It will render the business of reducing unwritten languages to a 
written form, sure and easy. 

(8.) It will show the exact state of the language at a given time. 

(9.) It will tend to do away with barbarisms in prouunciation. 

(10.) It will reduce the bulk and therefore the cost of our books. 

Now let me turn to some of the objections chronically urged against 
phoneticism. 

The most important objection is that which maintains that the system 
would tend to obscure etymology, and produce confusion. We answer to 
this, fir*t of all, that phonetic spelling, so far from being a hindrance to 
etymology, is its only ture and safe guide, for the science of etymology is 
built upon the science of phonetics. Tn the second place we may ask our 
opp nents if the change which we propose will destroy the etymology, how 
is it that the etymology has not already been destrojeJ? »Ve kLow that 
in Queen Anne’s time our orthography was not the same ai at present We 
know that in Caxton’u time the orthography was different from that of 
Queen Anne’s time, and if we go back to Chaucer we find that English is 
almost like anotaer language. The truth is that etymologies at present are 
very uncertain, and we do not look to them for the piesent meanings of the 
words. If, to take a celebrated example, I should call my friend opposite 
a knave and a villain, he would hardly be satisfied with my telling h.m that 
one of the words originally signified only a lad or servant, and the other a 
ploughman. But even if the etymological value of our words was some- 
what impaired by phonetic spelling, I ask should the latter on that account 
be rejected? Ask yourselves candidly how often do you look to the ety- 
mology of words in your every day life. I imagine that the occasions are 
very few and far between, it would only be the scholar who would lose 
and he would still possess the records ot our present books. I shall give 
you the opinion of the greatest living etymologist upon this point - 

“Language is not made far scholars and etymologi ts ; and if the whole 
race of English etymologists were rea ly to be swept away by the introduc- 
tion of spelling reform, I hope they would be the first to rejoice in sacri- 
ficing themselves in so good a caui-e. But is it really the case that the 
historical unity of the English language would be broken by the adoption 
of phonetic spelling, and the profession of the etymol >gist w„uld be gone 
forever? I say, No, most emphatically, to b th propositions. The real 
answer, however, is that no one could honestly call the present system of 
spelling either historical or etymological ; and I believe that, takeo as a 
whole, the loss occasioned by consistent phonetic spelling would hardly b«* 
greater than the gain.'* 

Hear aLo the distinguished Dr. J. A. H. Murray, the lexicographer, 
upon this objection : — 

“ I hardly need aid that my dictionaiy experience has already sh >wn 
me that the ordinary appeals to et\mology against spelling ref orm utterly 
break down upon examination. The etymological information supposed 
to be enshrined in the current sptlling is sappe i at it very foundation by 
the fact that it is, in sober fact, oftener wrong than right, that it is oftener 
the fancy of pedants or sciolists of the Renascence, or monkish et>m logers 
of still earlier times, th.it are thus preserved, than tho truth which alone is 
etymology. From the fourteenth century onward 4, a fashi >n swept over 
French and English of refashioning the spelling of words after the Latin 
ones, with which rightly or wrongly they were supposed to be connected ; 
and to such au extent has this gone that it is, in nine cases out of ten, now 
impossible, without actual investigation, to form any opinion upon the 
history of these w >rds— the very thing the current spelling is supposed to 
tell us. The real history is recovered only by marshalling the phonetic 
spellings of earlier days, as the Philological Society s Dictionary will en- 
able evervone to do, piercing through the mendacious spellings of later 
times to the phonetic facts which th a y conceal or falsify, and thus reaching 
a genuine etymology. The traditional and pseudo-etymological spellings 
of the last few centuries are the direct foes with which genuine etymology 
has to oontend ; they are the very curse of the etymologist’s labour, the 
thorns and thistles which everywhere choke the golden grains of truth, 
and afford satisfacti n only to the braying asses which think them as good 
as wheat.” 

This, Ladies and Gentlemen, is the great objection with which ou r op- 
ponents arm themselves, this is the broken reed upon which they so con- 
fidently rely. 

The next objection is that we would in the new spelling be unable to 
distinguish words pronounced alike but now spelled differently, such yvords 
for instance as r-i g-h-t and w-r-i-t-e. Our answer to this is, that if at 
present in the hurrv of conversation there is hardly ever a doubt which 
word is meant, surely there would be much less danger in the slow process 
of reading a continuous sentence where the context would remove any pos- 
sibility < d doubt. That this objection is a most flimsy one will be seen from 
the fact that there are already in written English abont 600 words with 
different meanings which, on the reasoning of ouroppo ents, should be pro- 
vided with separate spellings. For instance the word box would require 
eight spellings, for it has eight, if not more, different meanings. The ob- 
jection is really an objection to the English language, and not to phonetic 
spelling. 

The only other objection deserving of our consideration is that there 
would be no uniform method of spelling— that each one would spell as she 
or he thought fit. This objection has, in reality, no basis, and primarily 
arose from an erroneous idea that phonetic spelling was advocated only by 
teetotalers, vegetarians and uneducated people. True, people could spell 
as they liked, just as they can spell now as they like, for we cannot prevent 
utterly ignorant people, in the phonetic system, or in the present system 
or in any system under heaven, from spelling incorrectly, only there 
would be an infinitely greater likelihood of their spelling correctly 



10 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1884. 



under the phonetic system. We should have just as strong authority 
for our spelling then as we have at present. At present we follow the 
spelling adopted by the best educated classes, and by the lexicographers, 
principally l)r. Johnson, modified, however, by more recent writers, of 
whom OgUvie is perhaps the best. We have no Act of Parliament to guide 
us, and, indeed, our present spelling varies a good deal. We should have 
just as sure and authoritative guides under the new system. 

Finally, I said I would read to you the names of some of those who 
are supporting this agitation in order to show you that this is no visionary 
scheme. Amongst the nnmber I see the names of John Hall Gladstone, 
Ph. D., F.R S., Member of the School Board for London ; Rev. E. A. 
Abbott, D.D., Head Master of the City of London School; Rev. Joseph 
Angus, D.D., President of the Regent’s Park College, and Member of the 
School Board for London ; Alexander Bain, LL.D., Rector of the Uni- 
versity of Aberdeen ; Miss Dorothea Beale, Principal of the College for 
Ladies, Cheltenham; Miss Frances M Buss, Principal of the North 
London Collegiate School for Girls ; Leonard H. Courtney, M P., Under- 
secretary of State for the Colonies; Sir John Lnbbock, Bart., F.R.S., 
M.P., for the University of London ; Rev. J. P. Mahaffy, M.A., Pro- 
fessor of Ancient History in the University of Dublin ; the Right Hon. 
A. J. Mundella, M.P., Vice-President of the Committee of Council on 
Education . Rev. Archibald Henry Sayce, M.A., Deputy Professor of 
Comparative Philology in the University of Oxford ; Rev. C. Broderick 
Scott, D.D., Head Master of Westminster School, The Right Hon. Vis- 
count Sherbrooke ; Rev. W. W. Skeat, M.A., Professor of Anglo-Saxon 
in the Uiiversity of Cambridge ; Alfred Tennyson, D.C.L., F.R.S., Poet 
Laureate. But the greatest of all is Alexander J. Ellis, F.R.S. 

That this is not an impossible reform may be gathered from the fact 
that the Spaniards in the last century and the Dutch in this, adopted simi- 
lar reforms, with nothing but the best results, whilst the Polish, Bohem- 
ian and Hungarian alphabets are all modern and constructed on. phonetic 
principles. 

I must now bring my rambling remarks to a close and leave the subject 
for more concise treatment to my friends on both sides. Allow me, how- 
ever, before sitting down to repeat what I said on rising to speak that 
this is a noble problem, a question of momentuous interest to millions of 
the human race. Believe me, your decision to-night will not be without 
its influence. Let it be given, I beseech you, honestly and decisively it 
favour of what will enfranchise more people than the greatest bill which 
ever came before parliament ; of what will do more to spread morality and 
knowledge throughout the length and breadth of the land than any inven- 
tion since the time when the firat printer, trembling with excitement and 
joy, scanned the first printed page. 



Mr. Elliot in opening for the Negative said ; — 

Mb. President, Ladies and Gentlemen,— When the actors and actions 
of this nineteenth century shall have been submitted to the investigation 
and criticism of posterity, I venture to say that the period will stand out 
pre-eminently distinct from its predecessors, and may be from its succes- 
sors, as one. of change and of great activity of thought . Other centuries 
have seen wide-spread and even violent changes, no doubt, but the spirit 
was not then so manifestly abroad in the land ; it exerted its influence then 
only in well defined localities and upon few subjects, but now it has per- 
meated every avenue of life, among all classes of people, from the shop to 
the pulpit irritation at the existing order of things is displayed and calls 
come for a better ; the manual labourer in common with the professor is 
discussing theories and estimating probabilities ; the spirit has swollen from 
a fructifyiug stream, bringing life and health and happiness and progress 
and security to a mighty and turbulent ocean, which threatens to sweep 
away upon its seething and inconstant billows even the very landmarks of 
our ancestry and to overturn the foundations of our social system. 

There was a time when reform had need of encouragement and suste- 
nance ; a time when the noble decision of an intellectual giant, coupled 
with an heroic courage and untiring perseverance could alone cope with 
the torpor of custom and prejudice, and give a progressive movement to 
society : doubtless, it is true that even now our extended vision serves only 
to show us the dimensions of the w room for improvement,** but it is equally 
true that in these days we need, instead of the glowing pictures and ardent 
fancies of the adherents of advanced opinions, the healthy courage and 
cautious action of more conseravtive minds ; men who will not shrink from 
encountering the ridicule that may be Doured upon existing institutions by 
so-called reformers— first, for the good that is in them ; secondly, for the 
poor substitutes we are asked to exchange them for. 

We are asked by the gentleman who has just resumed his seat to ex- 
change our present system of spelling for one whioh he and I must confess 
many others consider a better : with far more learning and eloquence than 
I can bring to bear upon the subject that gentleman has portrayed to you 
the defects of the ola, the advantages of the new. Whatever may be said 
of his contentions there can, I think, be but one opinion as to the clearness 
and ability with which the learned gentleman has pleaded for a change . 
The lucidity of his sentences has, I must own at once, entirely changed my 
opinions. I am now forced to believe what up to the present time I found 
very difficult, that our opponents’ advocacy of this change arises from a 
hearty belief in it, and, though in error, they certainly have the courage of 
their convictions. Were it not that I feel assured so just a defence as that 
which we undertake to-night needs but little support to commend it to the 
attention and adoption of this audience, I should scarcely venture to at- 
tack the arguments of my opponent, not indeed because of their intrinsic 
worth, but because they deserve a cultured reply. 

Our opponents’ advocacy of this change, however, shews them to have 
been unwittingly carried off upon one of the breakers of change in the great 
ocean of thought and not upon a deep and natural current of reform . 

. Let me say at the outset that we do not oppose a change merely because 
it is such. I know it has become the fashion in these days to consider those 
who give opposition to such undertakings as the one under discussion to- 
night as so wedded to their opinions as to mistake prejudice for reason. 
This is as often false as true ; the difference between our opponents and us 
is this— -that while they having fallen in love with a flashy but impracticable 
toy, ‘strive in the ardour of their affection to substitute it for the tried and 
really valuable instrument, we, on the other hand, with a lively remem- 



brance of the debt we owe to the old for its .mines of knowledge, its wells 
of consolation and its streams of music, maintain our right to tread cau- 
tiously in examining the foundations of this old system, and will not dis- 
card it until we are assured that its usefulness is gone and that a better 
has'succeeded* it. 

Our opponents 'are greatly exercised lest we should consider them 
“cranks. I hasten to assure the learned gentleman that, on the contrary, 
I have always admired his logical habits of thought, but I must confess I 
entertain deep pity for that poor old man upon whom he placed such a 
glowing eulogy, who, at the age of seventy years, was engaged in so pue- 
rile a pursuit ! , 

It is evident, Mr. President, that our opponents are bound from the 
very nature of the subject to establish both of these two things before they 
can hope for a favourable verdict,— first, that the present system is defec 
tive ; second, that the proposed is a vastly superior one. Whether the 
gentleman who has just resumed his seat has been to any extent scccessful 
in either of these two tasks is a question, even if no objection were taken 
to his arguments nor any criticism offered upon his views. But without 
entering upon a detailed reply I propose to place the arguments of the 
learned gentleman as belonging to a class much in vogue among ardent re- 
formers, and consisting in the creation of imaginary maladies for which 
they invent corresponding cures. I shall endeavour in reply to these argu- 
ments to shew two things,— first, that our opponents enormously exagger- 
ate the defects and inconveniences of the old system of spelling ; second, 
the one which they propose although as yet “ in the air,” and. therefore 
far more easy to defend than attack, gives strong evidences of being not an 
improvement, but a positive injury, an educational calamity. 

First, then, that the defects of the old system are exaggerated. I am 
aware that this very statement may be seized upon by our opponents a« at 
least a partial admission of their correctness, but you will remember, Mr. 
President, that we do not advocate the present system as a perfect one. I 
admit that it has defects in the same way that in many respects our appli- 
ances for agricultural pursuits are defective, that our systems of educa- 
tion are defective, that our governmental machinery is defective ; they are 
all marred by ignorance and want of power in their immediate authors ; 
they are defective because in wisdom we have been endowed with aspira- 
tions for an ideal which is perfect. . 

It is assumed quietly by our opponents that the written word should 
correspond to aod be an exact reflex of the spoken. Now, at the outset, 
this is the very assumption which I consider requires investigation and de- 
mands proof. Why should it? Dr. Trench has well observed that “every 
word has two existences, as a spoken word and a written, and you have no 
right to sacrifice one of these or even subordinate it wholly to the other .” 
The spoken word gives us information through the sense of hearing, the 
written word through the sense of vision. Written words naturally are 
stable ; spoken words are naturally changeable. 

The answer of our opponents to this obvious truth is yes, but in the 

acquisition of knowledge, written and spoken words are intimately con- 
nected, and unless we have a regular and systematic alphabet to represent 
the sounds employed in uttering spoken words, the written language is al- 
most impossible of acquisition, or at any rate necessitates an enormous 
outlay of both time and money, and thus presents an appalling obstable to 
the education of the people; and in this answer we haze in brief the raison 
d'etre of the discussion. 

In reply to this, I say, it is only true to a very limited extent, so limited 
indeed, that instead of assuming it to be sufficient cause for so radical a 
change, it should be closely examined whether it is a charge sufficiently 
important to deserve the attention of educators. My own belief is that 
the eye and the memory are the all important means by which we learn to 
read and spell a language — the eye conveys the picture to the mind and the 
memory retains the name of this picture. In a language in which phonetic 
spelling is the rule, no doubt the task upon the memory is somewhat less, 
for an act of memory need then only be exercised over a class instead of 
over each individual word, but at the same time it must be remembered 
that in such a language words must necessarily lose many of their distinc- 
tive marks ; hence, the eye is more likely to err, and moreover the system 
naturally implies, in fact is so constructed a3 to require a certain amount 
of reasoning power. It may, I think, very reasonably be doubted if much 
reliance can be placed upon this power in the first stages of education ; 
especially in the case of very young children I am of opinion it would ren- 
der the primary steps even more difficult than they now are, for teachers 
would be very apt to expect from the infantile mind powers which natur- 
ally belong only to older children. 

But turning aside from this speculative method of treating the subject, 

I find it is a favourite method among our opponents of shewing this enor- 
mous waste of power in time and money to compare the time spent upon 
learning to read and spell a phonetic language with that necessary to ac- 
quire the English, and I have been astonished at the apparently thought- 
less manner in which these gentlemen have jumped at conclusions ; I can 
only account for it by the intensity of their passion for their captivating 
hobby, reminding you of the adage, “ love is blind.” 

In examining this question I wish to attach to it all the importance to 
which it is entitled in the discussion, it would be an easy task to expose 
the exaggerations of some of the calculations of those advocates of the 
change who are merely visionary theorists. In looking at these calcula- 
tions I have been forcibly reminded of Mark Twain’s reflection after 
having proved the river Mississippi to have been 1,300,000 miles long at 
one time, and to have stuck out over the Gulf of Mexico like a fishing-rod. 
He says, “There is something fascinating about science. One gets such 
wholesale returns of conjecture out of such a trifling investment of fact !” 

I think the learned leader of the affirmative will not object to receive the 
calculations of Mr. J. H. Gladstone as those of a friend and brother re- 
former. I think he urges his views strongly and places his argument in 
the most taking form, and that therefore I am fair in presenting his argu- 
ment to you, ladies and gentlemen, as a brief but comprehensive summary 
of all like arguments of our opponents. It is a specimen brick from which 
you may gather a pretty correct idea of the sort of proofs upon which 
these gentlemen ask us to make this radical change. 

Mr. Gladstone, who was a member of the London School Board of 
1878, entered upon his calculations with this practical object in view, to 



1884 .] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



11 



improve, if possible, the educational advantages of the working classes 
in the great City of London ; he, therefore, conducted his investigations 
one would suppose, in a practical business-like manner. He tells us 
that the spelling of the Italian language is the most perfect in Europe 
being almost strictly phonetic. After carefully examining the amount 
of time devoted to reading and spelling in Italian and also in English 
schools, he comes to the astonishing result that 1375 hours more are 
devoted to these subjects in the school year in the English school than 
in the Italian 1 No wonder Mr. Gladstone belches forth anathemas upon 
a system of spelling which thus wastes the time and youth of our people 
if his calculations were correct and thorough, but they are not, they are 
erroneous because very superficial, and as I say may be taken as a speci- 
men brick of all like argumenis of our opponents. 

I need scarcely remind you, Mr. President, that there are two me- 
thods of teaching, with a text-book and orally. Now, if a child com- 
mit to memory a rule of arithmetic from a text-book he is actually study- 
ing reading and spelling rather than arithmetic ; if he learn facts of his- 
tory and geography from a text-book, he is having equally good practice 
in reading and spelling. Now, in English schools we know that these 
subjects are, as a rule, taught to a great extent orally, while I am in- 
clined to believe that the system adopted in Italy is the opposite, but 
whether this be true or not, Mr. Gladstone’s 1375 hours extra time is 
utterly valueless as an argument in favour of phonetic spelling until he 
proves to us that these two systems of teaching are not resp ctively in 
vogue in the two countries to which I have referred. 

Hut the utter absurdity of these calculations may be well exposed in an- 
other way. It is a notorious fact that a century ago only a very small 
percentage of Italians could read and write, but of those who could, prob- 
ably eighty or ninety per cent, could understand their own great poets and 
philosophers. Now every one learns to read, at least, but of those who 
can pass a very tolerable standard not one per cent, can make head or tail 
of Dante. Now what does this prove ? Simply this, that Italians are 
taught to read and spell a vocabulary which will prepare them to read their 
newspapers and write business letters. But what is the aim of an English 
school ? To teach the entire vocabulary of the language ; consult our spell- 
ing books, bristling with words that a fairly well-educated man does not 
employ a dozen times a year ; look through our reading books, supposed to 
be adapted for boys of ten vears of age, and you have extracts from 
“ Disraeli’s speech on the death of Wellington ;” “ The scene in the tower, 
from King John,” and “ Dr. Dawson’s Creation of the Earth,” and yet the 
time necessary to acquire this vocabulary is compared with that necessary 
for the former. The quantity of the words, not the method of sp-lling, is 
what consumes the time and produces unsatisfactory results’; and here let 
me say, that it appears to me, we might well take a leaf out of the Italian 
book. I think it an entire waste of energy and a positive cruelty to spend 
the time of the children of the working classes, those who go to school to 
learn to read and write and nothing more, in either reading or spelling 
words which they will never have occasion to use. We teach children mul- 
tiplication but not cube root, and act reasonably, but became they ought 
to be able to spell dog must they of necessity spell protoplasm ? 

Now, Mr. President, I have endeavoured to show that our opponents 
are able to prove, neither by abstract reasoning, nor yet by comparison 
with other countries, that our system of spelling is such a burden upon the 
education of the people as they regard it. One other method of proof is 
resorted to, ingenious but equally fallacious. It is said children of our 
own country have actually been taught to read and spell by the phonetic sys- 
tem, and they have learned in a much shorter period of time ; with regard 
to the latter accomplishment they would probably be regarded as far ahead 
of their time as Artemus Ward considered Mr. Chaucer behind it; when he 
said “ he had brains, but, unfortunately, could not 3pell !” But in answer 
to this argument I would say, what guarantee have I that you are not 
comparing the work of exceedingly good teachers and exceptionally bright 
children with that of careless teachers and ordinary children ; but even 
granted that the children and teachers were of equal ability, this much re- 
mains to be said, that the teacher of the phonetic system has entered upon 
his work with the zeal and ardor of an earnest believer, and has, therefore, 
the immense advantage that such a condition gives him. 

It only remains to be said in this connection, Mr. President, that if the 
charge against the present system of waste of time has been shewn to be 
false, the charge of waste of money falls to the ground, for it is, in fact, 
only the measure of the former. When our opponents are so fortunate as 
to procure actual calamities brought about by the old system, argument 
fails and defence is useless. The leader of the affimative has wittily, and I 
must say to my mind unfeelingly, charged our present system of spelling 
with killing a Frenchman and maligning a cow. I offer my sympathy to 
the bereaved family who, in their youthful gambols were, with one fell 
swoop, deprived of a fond father and their matin bowl of milk ! 

My second task, Mr. Chairman, is to endeavour to show why I consider 
the proposed method would be not only not an improvement but a positive 
injury to the language. In order to do this I shall make some comparisons, 
difficult as it is to compare the seen with the unseen, the known with the 
unknown, and, in deference to the opinions of our opponents, I shall try to 
free myself of the knowledge that this new sj stem has but a name, and 
forget, for the time being, that even the eloquent speech of the learned 
leader of the affirmative was powerless to call it out of the ghostly regions 
of crude thought, and give it a habitation and a form. 

First of all, then, Mr. President, I claim that we can make no compari- 
son between this new proposed system of spelling and the old as regards the 
cost of printing or writing, seeing that scarcely any two of those who ad- 
vocate the new have ever yet been able to agree, either upon the number 
or character of their orthographic signs. The truly logical phonetic speller 
will not be satisfied until he has a visible sign for each and every sound of 
the human voice ; the would-be practical man declares his brother reformer 
is refining too much, and he washes his hands of all responsibility in the 
matter 1 The leader of the affirmative has not very carefully defined his 
position in this respect. I do not wish to press him to raise up “ foes of 
his own household.” I fully appreciate his difficulties; but in the mean- 
time he must be content to leave any argument founded on the cost of 
printing in abeyance, at least, for the present. 

My second objection is, we have in English a large number of words, of 
very different meaning, yet all pronounced alike ; everybody will admit 



this to be a disadvantage, but our opponents ask us to extend this blemish 
to the written language as well, to spell, as well as pronounce them alike 1 
In spoken ’anguage this may lead to error ; in written language, from 
the very nature af things, it would ; and so great would the inconvenience 
and annoyance become, that necessity would over-ride phonetic rules and 
interpose signs to catch the eye and distinguish the word. 

Again, it is contended that phonetic spelling would indicate pronunci- 
ation and reduce dialects. Now, I contend that, for the great mass of the 
people, it would not indicate pronunciation, neither would it reduce dia- 
lects; it would perpetuate them. Spoken language is decidedly dictatorial 
and very tenacious. We have no authority of final resort for pronuncia- 
tion in English ; the spirit of the people will not brook sach a thing ; with 
a phonetic alphabet, and true to phonetic principles, the people would 
make the written word correspond with their idea of the spoken, as it is our 
written words are a standing protest against such mutilation ; sweep away 
our etymological spelling and our wri ten language will become a confused 
jargon. Italy has a phonetic alphabet, but she has also a number of very 
distinct dialects. And in our case, Mr. President, imagine us furnished 
with a phonetic alphabet, used under phonetic rules, and. I ask you how 
much similarity would there be among the same words written by the in- 
habitants of the different sections of the British Isles themselves and of the 
Colonies? In this connection also, I wish to point you to the fallacy of the 
argument that people would not require to learn to spell, say after the two 
first years of school life. The argument, of course, is, if our words were 
spelled by fixed rale and not with arbitrary letters, people would naturally 
spell correctly. Now, if this be true, how comes it that incorrect spellings 
are not all alike ? I have myself seen a word of four letteis incorrectly 
spelled In three different ways by the same individual. The system is in- 
vented as a boon for uneducated and partially educated people. Dr. 
Trench gives us a forcible example of people spelling by sound, and hence 
an idea of what may be expected when the system advocated by our op- 
onents is introduced. He says “the postmasttr of the town of Woburn 
as noted 244 different methods of spelliug that name among th>- unedu- 
cated class, for whose benefit this system is mainly composed. 

There is still another objection to the system, so important and so far- 
reaching, that it is no wonder our opponents have always summoned their 
biggest guns to this point of attack. I refer to the irreparable loss which 
phonetic spelling implies in the etymology of our language. At first those 
who favoured phonetic spelling were dumb in reply to this objection, but 
through time they have gath-red together a number of specious arguments, 
which have become worthy of notice only because some noted philologists 
and highly educated men have taken them under their special care. Our 
charge is, that this system will obliterate everything that visibly connects 
our language with the past, and will make it a dead, mechanical contriv- 
ance, instead of what it is, a living and wonderfully beautiful out-growth of 
the thought and progress and dignity of the race. The leader of the 
affirmative has given us a long array of scholarly names who deny this 
statement. I cannot dissect at any length the answers made to this 
charge by these noted men, but will content myself with simply shewing 
that when carefully examined they should have little weight in the discus- 
sion. The noted philologist, Prof. Muller, whose opinions usually are en- 
titled to close attention, makes reply to our charge by propounding this 
question— “ If a man know the origin of a word is he any less likely to re- 
cognise it in a phonetic dress? ’ and the answer is, unmistakably, no. But 
this is evading the question. If a man do not know the origin of a word, 
will he ever be likely to find it in a phonetic dress? The learned man can \ 
the ignorant man will never try, but there are thousands of fairly well- 
educated men and women to whomjsuch knowledge would be a store house, 
inspiring thought, and opening up vistas of beauty undreamed of, whose 
knowledge is too limited to surmount the difficulty, and y-t too extensive 
to rest satisfied wanting its solution. 

In reply to the argument that the proposed system would substitute a 
healthy mental training for a vicious one, I cannot do better than remind 
you of the fact that thousands of English men and women have surmounted 
the difficulties of the language, and are not, as we can see, any the worse 
for it either mentally or morally. The learned leader of the affirmative is 
an eloquent survival, for the occasion, the fittest ! and my friend who will 
follow me on the affirmative will unconsciously give emphasis to my posi- 
tion. As regards their morality I am equally certain on that point, unless 
indeed, they claim that the system has engendered that ingratitude which 
they display in attacking the beneficent^mother of their purest and most 
cherished enjoyments. 

I am painfully aware, Mr. President, how imperfectly I have pleaded a 
good cause. From the course pursued by my friend who opened the dis- 
cussion I have been obliged to anticipate argument, but I have endeavoured 
at the same time to reply to his position. In conclusion I wish to remind 
you that our opponents are bound to shew, first of all, good cause for doing 
away with the old ; secondly, equally strong reasons for introducing the 
new, these reasons built upon natural conclusions arising out of a descrip- 
tion of it ; and after they have done all this they are bound to say how 
much of a gap they will allow between the spoken and written word, in 
other words, how often they will introduce changes into written words to 
have them keep pace with the spoken, which are constantly changing at d 
varying. If they will take a suggestion from the adverse camp, I should 
advise them to institute at once a Board of Inventors and take up the old 
and set down the new before a knowledge- thirsty and grateful people at 
each decennial census ! 

And then when all this is done they may set to work with ear-tickling 
fancies about reform and progress, to induce such audiences, as the one be- 
fore us to-night, Mr. President, to obliterate the proudest boast of our race 
to give place to a pure plebeian upstart, whose sole claim to existence rests 
upon money and expediency. 

Will you, for an apparent and imaginary gain, destroy and obliterate 
this inexhaustible treasure-house of word-lore ? 

Will you, for an utilitarian and gross demand, wipe out the sentiment 
and poetry wrapped up in our words, and thus transmitted to us in our 
language by the noblest of our race. 

Will you barter those numberless guides which our language supplies 
us, to the ancient custom, the beliefs of long past centuries, the conquests 
of heroes, and the creeds of all, for a soulless form suited to a spiritless 

Yiennlp. * 



1-2 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1884. 



I am confident that you will not, but, on the contrary that you will de- 
cide in favour of the preservation of “ our glorious English tongue,” and 
by so doing vindicate a true sentiment which does you infinite honour, and 
at the same time enter your intelligent protest against such a daring pro- 
ject of iconoclasm as that proposed by our opponents. 

The following is Mr. Brown’s address supporting the Affir- 
mative : 

Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen,— You have all, I am sure, 
listened with very much pleasure t> the graceful periods and well timed 
witticisms of the gentleman who has just resumed his seat. Enough, how- 
ever, I feel satisfied, ha9 been said by the leader upon the affirmative to 
show that a change in our system of spelling is not only desirable but in- 
deed absolutely necessary. 

I shall endeavour this evening in very brief and general terms to show 
that our present system is a very bad one, while the one we propose to in- 
troduce is infinitely better. 

Our alphabet is made up of those characters which the Romans saw fit 
to adopt, in order to express the sounds which their language possessed. 
It was found in early times that the Latin language hai some twenty-five 
or twenty-six distinct sounds; they therefore adopted a like number of 
symbols, and by means thereof were undoubtedly enabled to make their 
written language equal if not superior to their spoken. For this or some 
other cause the English people were subsequently induced to adopt the 
same characters which the Roman s had adopted, perhaps because at that 
time the English language was found to be possessed of a like number of 
sounds to the Latin . Languages, however, are constantly changing, and 
these changes have in the course of centuries brought the English spoken 
language to be possessed of. such qualities as have never been attained by 
other languages. In coming down through the past thousand years or 
more the English language has been thrown into close connection with the 
Celtic, Norman, and more especially the German tongue, while from the 
peculiar genius of the people they have been enabled to retain all that 
which these other languages possessed best worth having, and to reject that 
which was of poorer . quality. In this way new sounds have been intro- 
duced into the English language which were native to these other langu- 
ages, but which never being known to the Romans could not be represented 
in their alphabet. 

The Latin English alphabet has thus gradually for a long time been 
becoming inadequate to express all the sounds that are now to be found in 
the Eng.ish language without attrib itiog to the several letters comprising 
it false sounds and thus causing much uncertainty and confusion. So, 
although much may be said in favour of the qualities resulting to the 
spoken language by reason of ^uch influences, unfortunately very little can 
be said which would be laudable to the written. 

It has been ascertained that the English language is now possessed of 
thirty-four or thirty six distinct elementary sounds, and I shall endeavour 
as clearly as possible to set out the manner in which these thirty-six sounds 
are represented by twenty-six letters, and also the amount of difficulty that 
necessarily exists by reason of such representation, while at the same time 
I would have you bear in mind that it is the expressed opinion of all emi- 
nent philologists that this uncertainty would be avoided if we had an al- 
phabet possessing as many letters as there are sounds in the language, and 
if these letters were at all times and under all circumstances sounded the 
same. It has also been found that of the twenty-six letters comprising our 
alphabet, twenty-five are liable to hide themselves, and under such circum- 
stances are unknown to the ear ; these are such as the letter w in the woid 
wrong, and the letters gh in the word right, etc., so that in order to repre- 
sent thirty-six distinct sounds as in the spoken language by twenty-six 
letters, of which twenty-five are liable to be mute, we have to make use of 
no less than 400 simple and compound symbols. 

The most difficulty, however, arises with the vowels, a having at least 
six sonnds ; o having five, and e, i , u , four each, making at least twenty- 
three sounds from five vowels, only fourteen distinct sounds, however. So 
you see different vowels must under certain circumstances be favoured 
with similar sounds ; nor will you think this surprising when you find that 
no less a number than 190 simple and compound symbols are made use of 
in order to derive from the five vowels these fourteen sounds ; and more, 
we have instances where certain vowels are distinctly sounded although 
they are not to be found in the words, e.g., long o is heard in the word 
hautboy, the sound being set out by other letters ; nor can this be simpli 
fied until we are possessed of an alphabet in which each of the vowels and 
consonants alike will at all times be represented by its own symbol and 
sound only. 

Although I stated that the most irregularity exists in connection with 
the vowels, I would wish it to be remembered that a very great deal also 
rests with the consonants ; but p rhaps a still greater difficulty arises in 
connection with both vowels and consonants, from the fact that our lang- 
uage has come to be possessed of sounds which, with our present alphabet, 
we can only express by means of the union of two letters, while one letter 
for each sound should suffice. These sounds are such as of cli in the word 
chair, the two sounds of th (one hard and the other soft) as in the words 
thin and they, also of sh in the word fish, th in the word leisure, and of aio 
as in the words awe, tall and haul (in this latter instance you see the sound 
produced by means of different symbols). This is sufficient to show the 
uncertainty resulting from the insufficient number of letters in . ur alpha- 
bet, and which uncertainty is gradually increasing with the changes which 
are ever taking place in the language. 

I shall now endeavour more practically to show you the necessity for a 
reform. 

The English language contains at present about 90,000 words, and of 
all this number there are only about 1,000 which are spelled as they are 
sounded, i.e., in which the lette s are both true to eye and ear, and these 
are made up almost entirely of monosyllables and the simplest dissylables, 
while the remaining 89,000 words are possessed of letters which are not 
sounded, of which number it is astonishing to find that 800 are monosylla- 
bles and have letters which are at variance with the sounds they represent. 
These being among the first words which children are taught to spell after 
learning the alphabet, they at the very start encounter difficulties in trying 
to bring into harmony sounds which they know intuitively to be discordant 



and thus seriously, I think, in many cases impairing the mind. Nor is it 
end^d here, but they have to struggle on against the same difficulties until 
they have committed to memory the spelling of the whole 89,000 words, or 
so many of them as they ever know over and above the 1,000 in which the 
letters are possessed of their true sounds. 

I will here give you an idea of the difficulty which is experienced by 
a child in learning to spell when it trusts to the sounds of the letters as in 
the alphabet or as heard in other words : take for example fhe word beauty . 

In the meantime th9 child will have learned tbe alphabet and heard the 
sound of the letter u as set out in other words, but quite naturally it will 
first try the phonetic system and spell the word b-u-t-y, this it finds is 
wrong and thinks of the sound u in the word dew , so it tries b-e-w-t-y, this 
too, is wrong, so it tries the sound of u as in suit and spells b-u-i t-y, then 
in the word view and tries b-i-e-w-t-y, these all being wrong it has some 
difficulty in remembering the sound u in Europe and tries b-e-u-t-y, after 
which it gives up in despair and has to be told b-e a u-t-y is the proper 
way to spell the word. This, ladies and gentlemen, I think is precisely the 
position in which children and even grown up persons are placed in hun- 
dreds, yes thousands of instances when trying to spell words which are 
possessed of mute letters. In proof of it, how many men in business to- 
day will try to write a word which they do not see very frequently without 
first consulting a dictionary, and besides what can be more deplorable than 
the fact that children have to bring their minds to believe when learning 
to spell that le ters have sounds which they do not possess. 

Dr. Franklin says, with reference to the country lass who called her 
lover her beau , but spelled it b o, that no doubt it meant as much to her, 
and he thought as highly of her, for all that, as he did of the city girl who 
more artistically spelled it b-ea u. So you see that practically we are in 
very great need of a change in our system of spelling. 

Let us now consider, briefly, the benefits which would be derived from 
such a reform. 

It is, to a very great extent, with a view to facilitate learning to read 
and spell, and to place it within the reach of many who would never be able 
to accomplish it under our present system. If it is advantageous to know 
how to read and spell, those who can’t do so should learn, and if we, by in- 
troducing the phonetic system, are able to place it within the reach of those 
who would be unable, to do so now, we are accomplishing what will prove 
a blessing to the millions who are to succeed us, for it is estimated that in 
the year 2000 A.D., the English language will be spoken by no less a num- 
ber than 1,837,000,000 of people 

I will now give you a few figures to show how small a percentage are 
able to acquire an education under the present system in the mother 
country. The Report of the Council of Education in England, in 1870-71, 
was to the effect that over 43,000 teachers were employed for an average 
attendance of 1,167,000 scholars, of which number 765,588 presented them- 
selves for examination, and only about 31,000 were found to be sufficiently 
advanced to enter the sixth standard, it being necessary that they should 
be able to read a paragraph from the newspaper. Of this number over 
3,000 were unable to write from dictation, and over 8,000 were ignorant of 
arithmetic, so we find that much less an average than one for each teacher 
was able to read an item from a paper. This, Ladies and Gentlemen, I 
think very conclusive that in England ignorance must prevail among the 
masses, and principally, no doubt, on account of our tedious system. 

The report was much the same in 1873, so that when we consider the 
increase in population which is ever going on, doubling every 56 years 
among English-speaking people, while it requires from 100 to 140 years for 
other nations, and also that in less than two centuries the English language 
will be spoken by more than three times as many people as any other 
language on the face of the globe, we. realize how greatly a reform is needed, 
and how promptly we m.U9t act in bringing it about, for among such 
masses the facilities and time for acquiring an education are necessarily 
limited, so that if, by introducing the phonetic system, the period of 6 or 
7 years, which we all know is necessary under our present system to learn 
to read and spell, could be reduced, as we have every reason to believe it 
could, from practical experiments which have been going on during the 
past 35 or 40 years in certain parts of England, to 6 months or a year, its 
introduction w 11 prove an everlasting boon to all future generations, for 
whom we are now paving tne way. It would prove beneficial to all classes, 
a benefit to those who would not have time to learn to read and spell under 
the present system, in enabling them to do so ; to those who would have 
time, in enabling them in the same period to pursue many of the branches 
of a higher education, and a universal benefit, for we all recognise the fact 
that knowledge which is acquired in early youth is retained much longer, 
and to better advantage than that whish is learned in mature years. 

lests have been had in connection with the spelling of our language un- 
der our present system, both in England and America, and it has been as- 
certained that of le*s than 2,000 failures in the Civil Service Examinations 
in England, over 1,800 of the candidates were plucked for spelling, while in 
America even teachers are found to be deficient in this particular branch. 

On occasions when from 80 to 90 have been examined in the spelling of 100 
common words, the best of them has failed in one ; some, who took prizes 
in four or five, while most of them have failed in over forty, from which it 
has been estimated that the average teachers will fail in more than 25 per 
cent of all the words which are put to them. 

It has been hinted by the gentleman who has just resumed his seat, that 

h o nnnnnn m f nu a«vo^A«v% a a ... ^ . ill . « . J 



. . . ... ... , — . origin, as easily by their 

sounds as their spelling, if not more so, and that the simpler the spelling is 
the more apt the words are to retain their true sounds, while the more com- 
plex and like our own system it becomes, the more apt are we to lose sight 
of their true and original meanings. Besides, what is language’ It is 
only a means of communication between individuals, and the more simple 
and efficient this means the more universally beneficial it will prove A 
gradual transformation is always taking place in languages, and these 
changes have, at length brought the English spoken and written languages 
to be scarcely recognizable as one, so the etymology of our language may 
be said to be destroyed to a very great extent already ; and the introduc- 
tion of a phonetic system in spelling is the only hope of re-establishing it. 
It has also been thought impracticable by the advocates of our present 
system, but as such changes have already been adopted with good results 



[1884. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



13 



by other nations, such as the Italians and Spaniards, durine the Dast two 
centuries, we have every reason to think it would be practicable in ours 
and even achieve greater results for these other nations were not so unfor’ 
tunate at the outset as were the English, nor had they so great induce- 
ments to bring about the change, for we have to-day on our shoulders the 
responsibility of improving and bringing into harmony the written and 
spoken elements of the greatest and grandest langmge the world has ever 
pown. Of course we have to work against public sentiment at first for it 
is ever against introducing changes into old and established systems ’ Still 
I feel that this evening I am speaking to an audience which fully appreci- 
ates the fact that a change in our system cf spelling must be made and 
that at an early date. 

When the idea of introducing and substituting the Arabic system of 
numerals for the old Roman system was first broached, I believe that popu- 
lar opinion was as strongly against it as it is to-day against the introduc- 
tion of the phonetic system. Yet what a triumph followed. Who of you 
commercial men would be willing to keep a set of books in Roman numer- 
als ? Who would wish to run up a single column in such a ledger ? and 
great as has been the benefit derived from such a change, I hope to see a 
still greater one, which is far more far-reaching, conferred on our people 
through the introduction of a phonetic system of spelling, for it is not 
every one who has to make use of figures, while every one should know 
how to read and spell his own language. 

Before closing I would like to say a few words about what seems to be 
the most efficient means of introducing the system. This, of course, could 
only be done by degrees. First it would have to be taught in the public 
schools, where life would be made much more pleasant to both teacher and 
scholar. In this way, in a short time, the system would become finally 
established, while it might be placed within the reach of those of maturer 
years by causing phamplets and books to be issued for a while in both 
systems. 

Those who oppose the reform tell us that it would necessitate the loss of 
all the books which our libraries now contain ; this, however, is an un- 
reasonable assumption, for readers of the present generation would keep 
their old editions, while those of the next would prefer the new, and in the 
course of time new editions of all the books worth reprinting would come 
out anyway, and might be issued on the new system and without great 
public expense, for it would no doubt be made to a great extent a private 
enterprise, while the less valuable books which these libraries contain 
would be done away with and not be much loss ; besides, if these books 
were not republished they would be consulted only by students who 
would probably be able to read both systems, and if they were 
unable to do so, it has been ascertained that it is easier and requires 
less time to learn to read and spell in the old system by first pursuing a 
course of study in the new, than to read aud spell in the present sys- 
tem only, so that in either case time and labour would be saved. 

All eminent philologists join in saying that if it were not for our bad 
system of spelling and antiquated orthography the universality of the 
English language would be secured beyond a doubt, and other nations 
may find cause to flatter themselves at the fact that the English nation 
has not sooner found this out. 

Show us, ladies and gentlemen, by your votes this evening that you 
are willing to unite with us in putting down that system of which the 
well-known writer, Lord Lytton, found cause to speak in the following 
terms : “ A more lying, round-about, puzzle-headed delusion than that by 
“ which we confuse the clear instincts of truth in our accursed system of 
“ spelling was never concocted by the father of falsehood. How can a 
“ system of education flourish that begins by so monstrous a falsehood, 
“ which the sense of hearing suffices to contradict,” and, ladies and gen- 
tlemen, you will show your willingness to assist in conferring on future 
generations one of the grearest blessings the world has ever known. 

In conclusion, I thank you for you kind attention. 



Mr. Macie in summing up for the Negative said : 

Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen,— Whenever any reform or 
so-called reform is being agitated in a community, we never fail to find a 
class of men ready and willing, and who in reality do devote the whole of 
their lives and energies to the accomplishing of the reform, and who in 
their wild zeal do not scruple to go almost any length in their advocacy 
of the same, in many cases entirely overlooking the fact that their appar- 
ently whole-souled interest is due not so much to a conviction of the bene- 
fits to be obtained by the introduction of what they propose as to an un- 
natural desire for the introduction of a something in many cases they do 
not know what, but which they, the restless lovers of change for 
its own dear sake, would have us resort to. The advocacy of the reform 
in spelling which certain individuals are trying to force upon us in the place 
and stead of our present tried and effective method of spelling the English 
language does not prove an exception to the general rule, for we find its 
advocates speaking and writing with all the energy and fanaticism (some- 
times spelled phoneticism) which is to such an eminent degree a character- 
istic of change. 

It seems to me to be a sad waste of time, of money and of undoubted 
talent for men with the intellectual standing of many of the supporters of 
the new system to throw away their short lives in support of a scheme 
which cannot be held as desirable and which, even if it were, so totally 
impracticable as to leave the question of its introduction untouched by 
any, excepting the few whose evidently superficial arguments have been 
quoted by the gentlemen upon the affirmative to-night. I have asked 
several prominent literary men in this city how it is that more has not 
been written against the proposed scheme and in support of our present 
system, and the answer has invariably been that these energetic and zeal- 
ous workers for phonotypy are engaged in a thankless task, and are ex- 
pending their time and money in advocating a system which it is impossible 
can ever sensibly affect the stability and character of the English language 
as it is spelt and pronounced under our present system. The new fashion 
of spelling is looked upon more with ridicule than with any fear as to 
what its possible effects might be ; people seem convinced that it will never 

be universally introduced. _ _ . . ... - 

A person reading any of the phonetic publications, written, of course, 
after the style of the new orthography is at first struck with what appears 
to him to be an extremely ludicrous play upon certain words, and teels 



more as if he were reading an extract from Josh Billings or some other of 
the writers whose works under the proposed system would be considered 
as representative specimens of English literature, instead of a choice se- 
lection from some one of our own great poests or literateurs , and one is 
almost forced in reading many of the articles of the advocates of the pros 
posed scheme to make the same remark as was made by Artemus Ward on 
attempting to read Chaucer, that “ Mr. C. had talent, but he couldn’t spell.” 
Now, Mr. President, is this the feeling that forebodes a very glorious 
future for the new “ fashion?’ I think not, and more, I must say that I 
am of opinion that it shows clearly and conclusively that the change is not 
desired by the people, and that they are so in love with their present lan- 
guage and manner of spel ing the sarre, as not to tolerate such an innova- 
tion as the introduction of the new system would be. 

But there are difficulties in the way of any one who attempts to defend 
what we have, and who advances a few facts tending to show the bad 
effects arising from a change. These difficulties have been intensified and 
made rather harder to overcome by the very ingenious and clever manner in 
which the gentlemen upon the affirmative have laid their views before ycu 
to-night, and by the utmost confidence with which these gentlemen have 
advanced certain plausible statements which one, at first sight, might con- 
strue into arguments, and which require some little examination before the 
illogical reasoning in some of them is brought to light. If each one of you 
would but give the question a little care and study, we are satisfied, and 
can have no reason for dreading the result. 

In listening to the discussion to-nRht you must have been struck by the 
very general manner in which the gentlemen opposite have handled their 
arguments, and by the utter absence of detail which has characterized their 
speeches throughout, and I am confident that an audience, such as we are 
addressing to-night, will not accept their view of the matter, when such an 
issue as the revolutionizing and destroying our language and literature is at 
stake. They appeal to our sympathy for the rising generation, who are 
forced, they say, in the st uggle for an education to spend a great part of 
their early life and energy in learning our barbarous orthography of to- 
day, and they are completely carried away with joyous anticipations of the 
time when the reformed primer should be in vogue, and when the emanci- 
pated youth of our land would, almost without an effort, master the intri- 
cacies of language, and dive into the depths of literature and letters, which 
they say will be preserved to us, as we nave it now, in all its entirety and 
beauty. 

For this, and we may say for this only, we are asked to exchange the 
stable framework of our language, which has risen from lower things to be- 
come the greatest and grandest structure of the kind in the universe, for a 
system which has nothing to recommend it to the practical student of liter- 
ature and language, and which gives us no guarantee that it will, or can 
ever, accomplish, what it claims. We eay it will not and cannot do so ; 
that it is totally impracticable, and, even if possible, that it is not desirable, 
for the losses consequent on its introduction would be very great, and the 
gains incomparably small. 

Spelling, it is urged, would no longer need to be learned at all, for every 
s und being represented by a sign would almost involuntarily bring the 
proper pronounciation of a word to a person’s mind, the sound and sign be- 
ing in perfect conformity with each other. The truth of this rests upon 
two assumptions, which are erroneous, but are nevertheless taken for 
granted by the gentlemen opposite. The first of these is that all men pro- 
nounce all words alike, and in spelling a word they will exactly agree as to 
what the sound as expressed in letters is. The falsity of this is evidenced 
by the difference in the spelling of the same word by different persons, and 
in some instances even by the same person. Select a word of average diffi- 
culty and submit it to a class ; some of these will, no doubt, spell the word 
properly, but a number will mis-spell it, and the majority will mis-spell it 
in an entirely different manner from the others. Those who cannot spell 
it correctly are obliged to fall back upon what they think the sounds con- 
tained in the word are. What then is the reason that these several persons 
do not fall into the same error as to what the sounds are, and how they are to 
be represented ? Simply because there is this difference of pronunciation 
which always has existed, and will continue to exist in spite of all the pho- 
netic system can do to prevent it, and which pronunciation is continually 
varying under the treatment it receives at the hands of different individu- 
als. each of whose ideas are slightly at variance with the others. But this 
difference is attributed to the confusion of our present English spelling. 
Is this true ? It decidedly is not, for the differences in pronounciation are* 
greatest among people who cannot read or write at all, and whose ancestors 
for generations before them were in the same lamentable state. They can- 
not have any other rule to guide them, and the strange thing to me is that 
with such an infallible and never-failing standard as the sound to guide 
them in their pronounciation that there should be such a very large number 
of dialects and differently pronounced words among the uneducated class 
who are unable to distinguish one written representation of a sound from 
another. That this difference exists in our English spelling and pronunciation 
is not the fault of the old system, nor would it be remedied by the new. Take 
for example the sounds of the vowel o as pronounced in the words wrong and 
fusion. According to some of the proposed schemes this vowel does duty 
for these two sounds. Now, the learner must, at the outset, ask himself 
the question, “ how am I pronounce this sign ? Am I to say wrung as it 
is pronounced in the last syllable of fusion , or fusidn as it is sounded in 
wrong?” and this fact forces itself upon us, that which ever way you decide 
and in whatever manner you fashion your pronounciation, your neighbour 
has quite as strong a position, and can defend it equally as well and with 
exactly the same arguments, when he decides the other way. This differ- 
ence is unavoidable ; people caDnot help it, and before one year had passed 
we would have a whole vocabulary of words differing completely from the 
vocabulary used by another, and which would produce a confusion infinitely 
greater than that which it is claimed exists in the present spelling of the Eny 
lish language. The Italian method has been mentioned by the gentlemen 
of the affirmative, and lauded to the skies, because it so nearly represents 
the Phonetic spelling which they advocate. But it is this same Italian 
language that I wish you to notice as a proof positive of what I have 
just said. There is probably no one of our modern languages that is so 
broken up by dialects and different systems of pronunciation, and so mu 
tilated by mis-spellings as this same language, and these are the direct 
suits ef the language being so nearly like the phonetic scheme and the 



re- 

bu- 



14 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1884. 



periority of the Italian method as regards the ease with which young chil- 
dren learn to read and spell, is detracted from by the fact that there is no 
uniformity of speech by which the people can be guided in their pronun- 
ciation. Italy still furnishes us with further examples of the evils conse- 
quent on the introduction of phonotypy in this, that the inhabitants 
of that unfortunate country are able to read the daily papers and write a 
very commonplace letter, but little more. Were we to adopt the new speech 
and writing, our highest ambition would be to be able to read the Phonetic 
Journal, and mechanically spell and write the symbols, which we at our 
fancy might imagine to stand for certain sounds, and our language and 
literature, which has made our country what it is, would be cast aside, and 
would slip out of the true life of the people, who, without its civilizing and 
benign influence, would degenerate into a state of semi-barbarity, where 
the phonetic system would be in its proper sphere, where it would have 
material upon which to make itself felt, and where it might exercise some 
influence in building up a literature and ameliorating the language of a 
barbarous people ; but the moral and social position of the English people 
who love their language, containing, as it does, so many connecting links 
between what they once were and what they are now as they love their 
life, is a sufficient guarantee that such an occurrence can and will never 
take place. 

The second assumption which these gentlemen help themselves to in 
such a gratuitous manner and which is quite as erroneous as the first is 
this : That just as soon as everyone is ready for a reform they will in- 
stantly accept the phonetic system. But the difficulty that arises here is, 
what is the phonetic system ? upon what standard of pronunciation are we 
to found a uniform system of speech ? are we to accept Pitman, with only 
fifteen out of every hundred words spelt as we spell them, or will we give 
our allegiance to Jones with nearly half the words in our vocabulary 
spelt the same. Different persons have given us different schemes and 
have advocated different methods of so-called phonetic spelling, by which 
they profess to overcome the disadvantages of the present spelling, but 
which proposed schemes evidence on their very faces more diversity of 
opinion and variety of construction than the gentlemen opposite have ever 
claimed exist in our present system. 

Probably no two men have given this question more laborious study 
than Mr. Ellis and Dr. Murray, and what does their evidence show? 
Simply this : they acknowledged that the objects sought to be attained by 
each of them were precisely the same, but they were forced to admit that 
the means of obtaining the reform which they severally advocated were 
entirely different, and each was of the opinion that what the other was 
doing only tendrd to put obstacles in the way of the change ever becoming 
a permanent success. 

In looking through an article a few days ago, professedly supporting 
the reform, I found a table containing six different proposed schemes with 
the spelling of one hundred words in each, and I was rather surprised to 
find certain Words out of the number spelt in a different manner in 
each of the proposed methods. In the word pronunciation as in the word 
able none of these reformers were able to agree as to what the sounds in 
these words were and how they were to be represented. But I am answered 
that there would be one of these schemes selected and every one would 
have to conform to it, and that this would be the uniform method of the 
gentlemen opposite. But granting this, where is the consistency of the 
gentlemen, our opponents, and where then would be the boasted ease of 
learning to read and spell. If I believe in one method and another 
were selected as the standard, I would be forced to memorize all the words 
that were not spelt according to my pronunciation. The same reasoniEg 
is applicable in any other of the many schemes which would be proposed, 
and the amount of laborious study required in this would be infinitely 
greater than any work required in learning to spell the English vocabulary 
of to-day. 

If letters were invented to-day we should have a sign for every sound 
in the language ; we would limit each sign to the expression of one sound 
and we should spell our written words exactly as they were spoken. We 
would do this for just one day, and the pronoun we would stand for those 
very few persons who would be able to agree upon the number and nature 
of the sounds in the language and upon the signs by which they were to be 
represented. As a familiar example let any one of you compare the differ- 
ent pronouncing dictionaries and note the elaborate schemes and plans for 
obtaining and teaching the proper pronunciation of words and sounds to 
the eye, and you cannot fail to see how futile is the attempt to make the 
written language correspond to and agree with the spoken, and understand 
that the former does, and in the beginning was meant to represent and 
effect more than the latter has done or ever can do. 

The general idea concerning the acquisition of the wisdom and study 
of past ages, is that these stores of knowledge which we have accum- 
mulated from ancient times are in books, in preserved written sentences 
alone, that in these written works only are contained the ideas of great 
men who have lived in times gone by, and that in the same are bound up 
the whole nation’s history ; but it is not in books alone that this know- 
ledge is stored up. but to a very great extent in individual words. From 
the primary condition of the people when the alphabet was invented, there 
has been a continual change in our language ; as the nation progressed 
there became occasion for the creation of new words to meet the require- 
ments of an advanced understanding ; others were culled from the langu- 
ages of neighbouring nations ; old forms began to disappear and new forms 
to take their place, still, however, leaving traces of the old in what took 
their place in the new ; and many of the words so introduced contain in 
reality whole ideas instead of being merely a mechanical combination of 
symbols to represent some particular thing, and these ideas are much often 
better expressed in single words than they possibly could be if the ideas 
were written out in full ; and oftentimes we learn more of the wisdom and 
progress of a nation from a single name than we do from the history of a 
campaign. Now, following this up we can easily see that our present sys- 
tem though it may, as these gentlemen claim, present some difficulty to 
the beginner, yet is of the greatest value in revealing to us the etymo- 
logical connection and derivation of words, thus creating a connecting link 
between the literature and language of ancient and modem times. If our 
etymology were swept away, as it would be under the proposed scheme, 
words would be mere mechanical representations, without anything of in- 
terest whatever attaching thereto, and through which learning would suffer 



an imparable loss. The existing system is continually calling our attention 
to the roots and derivations of many words, but in the new there is nothing 
that would even lead us to enquire. Words have a descent, exclusively 
their own, and the casting aside the history of the word (for its history is 
it eluded in its etymology) would destroy one of the most pleasing features 
in the study of our language and prove highly detrimental to the literature 
of the future. But it is said that the only persons affected by the change 
in this respect are those belonging to the small class of learned, men and 
scholars, and that no one else need care whether they are acquainted with 
the derivation of words or not. But between the two extremes, those who 
are favoured with a superior education and those who have none at all, 
there is a multitude of persons neither accomplished scholars nor yet wholly 
without the knowledge of language, except their own, and it is not to be 
doubted for a moment but that these should have helps, enabling them to 
recognize the words which they are using, whence they came, to what 
words they are nearly allied, ana what is their proper use and real mean- 
ing. This argument could not be urged with as much force at the time 
this agitation for reform commenced as it can now, nor can it be urged 
now with one half the force it will be a few years hence, for in all our schools 
of to-day we find that the study of the etymology of words takes up almost 
as much time as any other branch, and our spelling aud reading books are 
full of lessons in the derivation of our English vocabulary. Many of the 
arguments of classical scholars as to the necessity of the study of the 
classics in a liberal education might be brought with much weight in favor 
of our etymological consideration of this question. 

‘‘The English language resembles what is called a Gothic building, 
crowded with apparently incongruous detail, much present that can only 
be justified by age or to the interest attaching to history ; but above all 
depending for effect not on external symmetry, but rather on internal 
complexity of structure. Infinite labyrinthian shadows, lights, strange 
corners, each feature half hidden by its neighbour, a strange mixture of 
poetry and subtlety, grandeur and homeliness, repose and frankness ; never 
inviting attention to its general outline or plan, which is indeed almost in- 
comprehensible ; yet to those who understand such work, in no wise 
injured by anomalous accessories.” 

Emerson has somewhere characterized language as “fossil poetry,” 
meaning that just as in some fossils we find beautiful shapes of vegetable 
and animal life, which have been hidden in their rocky beds for thousands 
of years, so in words are beautiful thoughts and images, the imagination 
and feeling of past ages, of men whose very names even have perished, 
preserved and made safe for ever. And what is more calculated to inspire 
a feeling of respect and love, and opposition to any change than to know 
concerning our language, the changes it has passed through, the sources 
from which the rich and expressive words contained in it are derived, the 
points in which it is superior to other languages, the points in which it 
is lacking, and the capacity which may be still living dormant until ready 
to expand into further improvement. As I remarked before, words have 
an ancestry ; they may be classified into families and tribes, and just as one 
takes pleasure and defight in tracing his lineage back to the knights of old, 
who have attached true nobility to his name, so do we take pleasure in, 
and derive instruction from, tracing from their different families and 
tongues the many expressive and comprehensive words that we are using 
every day ; but this change would reduce the mass of our words to a bar- 
barous horde, to which but little sense and no interest whatever could be 
attached. Now, Mr. President, is it reasonable to suppose that we are go- 
ing to cast away everything of interest, and which we hold most dear in what 
we so affectionately call our mother tongue, that we are going to sever all con- 
nection with the true life of the nation, whose literature, whose institutions, 
whose very religion and laws are represented in multitudes of words that we 
are continually using. Ijthink it is not for the love of his language take pos- 
session of every Englishman from this that it is but the characteristic love of 
country expressed in one particular direction. If the noble acts of the na- 
tion to which we belong are precious to us, if we feel ourselves made 
greater by the glorious deeds of our ancestors and by the greatness of our 
country, as we most assuredly do, and if we feel inspired to a nobler life by 
the true nobility of Englishmen who are now dead and gone, but who have 
bequeathed to us a name which by us must not be made less, in what way 
can we be assured that their native land and ours has fulfilled a glori- 
ous past, than that they should have acquired for themselves and us a clear 
a strong, an harmonious, a noble language, which, on its very face, speaks 
of those who have strengthened and fashioned it to be the utterance of 
their inmost life and being, and the English people, filled with such senti- 
ments as these can not but shew their reverence aud love for a language 
whose origin is but the origin of themselves ; and each one of us must con- 
sider the care af such a language a sacred trust, and should make it the 
object of his unceasing concern to preserve it pure and entire, and to speak 
it as far as in his power doth lie in all its purity and perfection. A nation 
whose language ever becomes as rude and barbarous as the phonetic system 
would make ours, must be on the very brink of barbarism, and if we testify 
to-uight to our willingness to accept the new system, we at the same time 
express our desire to allow our language to go to ruin, to part with the largest 
half of our intellectual power, and even to cease to exist as a literary and 
intelligent people. 

Mr. Murray having made a forcible reply, for which we have 
no space, the question was put to the meeting and decided in 
favour of the Negative by a narrow majority. 



The following is an experiment in Phonetic spelling : 

DHE SOLJER’Z FYUUNERAL. 

Dlie mufeld drum rold on dhe eir, 

Wcirierz widh steitli step war dheir ; 

On evari Arm woz dhe blak kreip buwnd, 
Evari kArbuin woz tarnd tm dhe gruwnd : 
Solem dhe suwnd ov dheir mezhard tred, 



1884.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



15 



Az suilent and slo dhey folod dhe ded. 

Dhe ruidarles liors woz led in dhe rijr, 

Dlier wor hwuit pluunz weiving ovor dhe byr, 
Helmet and sord war leid on dhe pal, 

For it woz a soljer’z fyraneral. 

Dliat soljar had stuid on dhe batel plein, 

Hweir evari step woz ovar dhe slein : 

But dhe brand and dhe bal had past him buy, 
And hy keim tut hiz neitiv land — tut duy ! 

Twoz liArd tra kum tut dhat neitiv land, 

And not klasp wun familiar hand ! 

Twoz hArd tui by numbard widh dhe ded, 

Or e’er hy kind hyr hiz welkum sed ! 

But twoz sumthing tui sy its klifs wuns mor, 

And tut ley hiz bonz on liiz on luvd shor ; 

Tra thingk dhat dhe frendz ov hiz yrath muit wyp 
O’r dhe gryn gras tarf ov dhe soljar’z slyp. 

Dhe byragelz syst dheir weiling suwnd 
Az dhe kofin woz loard intra dhe gruwnd ; 

A voli woz fuird, a blesing sed, 

Wun moment’s paz — and dhey left dhe ded ! — 



A’ A E’ Q 


Y- xj 0- a 


Oo UU ra U - iu 


alms earn-urn 


ye all 


old 


woo put 


Amz ern 


yu al 


old 


wra prat 


ui or uy 


ei or ey 


u\v 


yra 


bite, buy 


ale, they 


out 


use 


buit, buy 


eil, dhey 


uwt 


yraz 



A font ov tuips must by yrazd in liwich inverted 
letarz Ar egzaktli on dhe seirn luin az upruit. 



Notice. 

1. The Publication Committee of the McGill T Diversity 
Song Book give notice that two prizes of the sum of ten dollars 
and five dollars respectively will be given for the first and 
second best new original McGill College songs, with or without 

C ^2. All communications, with the nom-de-phime of the writer 
attached, are to be sent in to the Secretary of this Committee, 
not later than August 15th, 1884. 

3. Communications are to be accompanied by a sealed en- 
velope, bearing the nom-de-plume, and containing the name an 

address of the writer. - , 

4. This competition is open only to graduates and under- 
graduates of McGill University. 

5. The Judges will be members of the Competition Corn- 

All students are specially requested to send in to the under- 
signed any songs which they would like to see published. 

C. W. Wilson (Med. ’86), 

Secretary. 

The annual report of the Reading Room Committee, for the 
session just closed, shows, as these annual reports usually do, 
a very prosperous condition of affairs. The surphis remaimng 
after the paying of all expenses is something over $30, about 
double of that of last year. 

The Committee of Athletic Sports have also a flourishing re- 
port to make. The surplus remaining in their hands is oi 
$100, not including a small amount standing to the credit ot 
the Track Committee. The Sports Committee have, we under- 
stand, prepared the draught of a constitution for a University 
Athletic Association, to be submitted to the undergraduates next 
autumn, and have also taken some steps for the holding of in- 
ter University Sports. We hope that in both of these projects 
their efforts will be successful. 



'SBefipeen {he ^Seciures. 



PARENTAL MUSINGS. 

There’s my fourth son, young and gay, 

Who has reached that time of day 
In his life, when poets say 
Is just the age 

Where the brook and river meet, 

(The expression’s rather neat), 

When to him the world effete 
Is but a stage. 

At the age when one goes o’er 

The good old days he’s spent of yore ; 

When he votes the sex a bore, 

And somewhat mean, 

Lovely woman’s but a toy 
To be bought with base alloy : — 

Is he man or is he boy 
At eighteen ? 

He’s in that open-hearted time 
Of life, that draws no rigid line 
Between what’s strictly 4 mine and thine 
In way of clothes. 

And so his manly breast he covers 
With neckties probably his brother’s, 

And when they’re worn he’ll seek for others 
I suppose. 

His elder brothers are pedantic ; 

His little sisters too romantic, 

So he throws in jest and antic, 

Wild and strange, 

To relieve the pompous bearing 
Of his brothers, who are wearing 
Out their lives to keep from swearing 
At the change. 

Tho’ he hates the very sight 
Of the early morning light, 

Yet he’s out each blessed night 
Of the week ; 

So I think I’ll put a stopper 
On these ramblings, so improper, 

Or, I fear, he’ll come a cropper, 

So to speak. 

But perhaps my better course is 
To invent some forcing process, 
Something like metempsychosis 
For the lad, 

By means of which he’ll slumber through 
From eighteen — say to twenty-two — 

And thus he’ll spare much trouble to 
His anxious dad. 



A BALLAD. 

(After Mr. Swinburne.) 

I hid my hat in some Otto of Roses, 

Out of the mum’s way, safe for a while. 

’Twas blacker of hue than the old black crow is ; 

In Otto of Roses I hid my tile. 

Why did it smell so ? Why they smile ? 

When I don that hat they say it’s absurd, 

For the Otto of Roses, by the gray god’s guile, 

Has been soured by the song of a secret bird. 

“ Smell not,” I cried, for the scent discloses 
Wherever I am, so that what I am at 
Is speedily known— though the governor dozes 
And all might be well— but that cursed hat, 

Like some spying sneak, with a worm at heart, 

And red ripe lips, like a woman unheard 
Screams out (so to speak) “ there’s a rummy start, 

This hat is mixed up with a secret bird.” 

I’d barter that hat with goary old Moses, 

(He’s one of my uncles, a soapy old file,) 

But I know what that Patriarch’s knowing old nose is, 

And how it would turn up at scent of the “ ile,” 

And the Jewish remarks he would make all the while, 

And how the hot blood in my heart would be stirred, 

When he’d say with his happy avuncular smile, 

“ P’raps you’ll shell me de song of your secret bird.” 

Envoi . 

No— I’ll stick to my roses and stick to my hat, 

Though Philistines smile and say it’s absurd ; 

But a crutch and a tooth-pick are worse than that— 

And I love the song of my secret bird. Philip Hay. 



Bon Mot. — A learned professor the other evening was ex- 
plaining to a company the theory of Psychophysics. A lady 
who was present, hearing the imposing phraseology about the 
intensity of sensations increasing in arithmetical ratio, while 
their physical stimuli increase in a geometrical ratio, exclaimed, 
“ it certainly does make one feel sick of physics.” 



16 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1884. 



NEW 

HOUSE'FURNISHING GOODS! 

At S. CARSLEY’S 

Tapestry Carpets, all new designs, new colors, 

At S. CARSLEY’S. 
Tapestry Carpets, splendid value, superior qualities, 

At S. CARSLEY’S. 



BRUSSELS CARPETS. 

Our stock of these goods from the most renowned 
manufacturers, At S. CARSLEY’S. 

BRUSSELS CARPETS. 

Private patterns, designs and colors adapted to the vari- 
ous rooms of any residence, At S. CARSLEY’S. 

BRUSSELS CARPETS. 

Manufactured from the finest wools, guaranteed free from 
jute, and of the highest standard of quality, and will be 
found superior to those generally produced for colonial 
trade. Call and see them At S. CARSLEY’S. 

TOURNAY VELVET CARPETS. 

Some nice specimens of these beautiful goods 

At S. CARSLEY’S. 

MOQUET CARPETS. 

The handsomest Drawing-room Carpet ever produced at 
the price. S. CARSLEY’S. 

SAXONY STAIR CARPETS. 

Cannot be equalled for wear and superiority of appear- 
ance, to be had At S. CARSLEY’S. 



S CARSLEY’S 

1®, I®, 1769, 1771, 1773, 177S and 1//? NOTHE DAME ST, 



MtfLW'E'MSEiHnr MDtfstxwariinriEM) 2 



PHOTOGRAPHS by ELECTRIC LIGHT 



PHOTOGRAPHS MADE EVERY EVENING AT 










fljfwv % ^uUeUf’, 

251 ST. JAMES STREET. 

NEXT DOOR TO H. MORGAN & CO. 

A LIBERAL DISCOUNT GIVEN TO STUDENTS. 

OPEN EVENING FROM 7 TO 11. 

PLEASE CALL A.IV33 SEE SPECIMENS. 

P.S. — The only place in the Province where Pictures are taken by Electric 
Light. 

O® ASMFOBIFS 

lev jjook mi Stationery ||op 

(one door west of his old stand) 

Medical Books, 

Students’ Note Books, 
Dissecting Cases and Scalpels , 

(BY WEISS & SON,) 

CHEAP FOR CASH. 

Books procured to order from England and the United States, 

678i AND 680 DORCHESTER ST. 

MONTREAL. 



UNIVERSITY OF 

BISHOP'S+COLLEGE 

MONTEEAL. 



FACULTY OF MEDICINE 

SESSION OF 1884-85. 



HE Fourteenth Winter Session of this Faculty will open 
T& on the first Tuesday in October, 1884. The Faculty of 
Medicine of Bishop’s College bases its claim for public 
support upon the thoroughly practical character of its in- 
struction, and the fact that the means at its disposal for this 
purpose are not excelled by any medical school in Canada. 
Its Diploma is recognized by the Royal College of Physicians, 
Edinburgh ; the Royal College of Surgeons, England ; and the Royal 
College of Physicians, London. Students have the option of attending 
the practice of either the Montreal General Hospital (200 beds), or of the 
Hotel Dieu H spital (200 beds), both of which institutions have a staff 
who regularly and systematically visit them. At the Montreal General 
Hospital excellent facilities are afforded for the study of Practical Pathology, 
under the direction of the Pathologist of the Hospital. The practice of the 
Montreal Dispensary — where spendid opportunity is afforded to learn Dis- 
pensing— is open to the Students of Bishop’s College. 

The Woman’s Department of the Western Hospital, under the 
supervision of this Faculty, is divided into two departments — Obstetrical 
and Gynecological. The Obstetrical Department is under the control of 
the Professor of Midwifery, and affords to Students a field unequalled in 
the Dominion — in fact this Department has made Bishop’s College the 
Midwifery School of Canada. The Gynecological Department is attended 
by the Professors of Bishop’s College, and is the only Hospital of its kind in 
the Dominion. Opportunity is here afforded to see most of the operations 
in this important Department of Surgery. 

Two Gold Medals (“ The Wood” and the “ Robert Nelson” Gold 
Medals) and the ‘ ‘ Dr. David” Scholarship are competed for annually. 

Fees, about the same as at the other Medical Schools in Canada, but a 
Student who pays the cost of the entire course on the commencement of his 
studies is able to effect considerable reduction. 



FACULTY: 



F. W. CAMPBELL, M.A., M.D., L.R.C.P. Lond., Dean, Professor of Principles and 
Practice of Medicine, consulting Physician Montreal Dispensary, Physician to 
Western Hospital. 

J. BAKER EDWARDS, Ph. D., D.C.L.. Emeritus Professor of Practical Chemistry. 

R. A. KENNEDY, M.A., M.D., C.M., Professor of Obstetrics and Diseases of Children, 
Consulting Physician Montreal Dispensary, Physician to and Superintendent of the 
Obstetrical Department of the Western Hospital. 

J. PERRIGO, A.M., M.D., C.M., M.R.C.S. Eng., Professor of Surgery, Physician to and 
Medical Secretary Western Hospital. 

J. B. McCONNELL, M.A.. M.D., U.M., Professor of Materia Medica, Physician Western 
Hospital and Montreal Dispensary. 

CASEY A. WOOD, C.M.. M.D., Professor of Pathology, Physician Western Hospital. 

GEORGE E. ARMSTRONG, M.D., Professor of Physiology, Physician Western Hospital. 

JAMES C. CAMERON, M.D.,C.M., M.R.C.P I., Registrar, Professor of Medical Juris- 
prudence, Physician to Montreal General Hospital and Western Hospital. 

THOMAS SIMPSON, M.D., Professor Hygiene, Physician to Montreal General Hospi- 
tal, Consulting Physician Western Hospital. 

E. H. TRENHOLME, M.D., C.M., B.C.L., Professor of Gynaecology, Consulting Phy- 
sician Montreal Dispensary, Physician Western Hospital. 

WM. YOUNG, CLM., M.D., Professor of Chemistry. 

J. LESLIE FOLEY, C.M., M.D., L.R.C.P. Lond., Professor of Anatomy, Physician 
Montreal Dispensary. 

H. L. REDDY ; B.A., M. D., L.R.C.S.E., L.R.C. P.L., Professor of Therapeutics. 

A. LAPTHORN SMITH, B.A., M.D., M.R.C.S. Eng., Professor of Botany. Physician 
Montreal Dispensary. 

LECTURERS IN SPECIAL DEPARTMENTS. 



JOSEPH BEMROSE, F.C.S.. Lecturer on Practical Chemistry. 

ALEXANDER PROUDFOOT, M.D., C.M., Lecturer on Disease of the Eye, Ear and 
Throat, Oculist to Montreal Dispensary and Western Hospital. 

D. D. GAHERTY, C.M., M.D., Demonstrator of Anatomy. 

ANTHONY KERRY. C.M., M.D., Curator of Museum. 

For Circulars giving every requisite information apply to the Dean 
or to 

JAMES C. CAMERON, M.D., C.M., M.R.C.P.I., 



Montreal, December, 1883. 



Registrar , Montreal. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 




PHOTOGR APHER 



141— ST. PETER STREET— 141 



All the latest improvements adopted , including 
the INSTANTANEOUS PROCESS, Sfc., fyc. 

COMPOSITION GROUPS executed with intelli- 
gent regard to established rules of art- 

Cabinet Photographs of HERBERT SPENCER % 
taken on his recent visit to this city, for sale. Price 
50 cents - 

— ..0.^3. TELEPHONE COMMUNICATION — 



L. ROBINSON, 

LATE OF 

LONDON, ENGLAND, 




HENRY GRANT 4 SON, 

26 Eater Ball Terrace. 

Students' Eye Shades, 

CLINICAL THEEUOHETEES, 
MICROSCOPES, 

BAROMETERS, <fcc. 

OJPTIC I A N$, 

WATCH-MAKlRS, 



Fashionable Tailor 

31 BEAVER HALL. 



HEADQUARTERS 



— FOR — 




232 ST. James STareeT. 

Medical Works, Books used in Art Course, 

Science Text Books, 

The various Theological Text Books- 

Full assortment in stock and suoolied at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

SCRIBBLING BOOKS, 8fc-, fyc., 

BEST VALUE IN TOWN. 

Stylographic Pens, Anti-Stylo Pens and Students ’ 
Supplies a Specialty- 

W. 3DKXSBAIJE <& CO # 

23 2 ST. James Street, 

ALSO 

Branch Store: 1423 St. Catherine St. 




McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 




I. SANDERS, 

OPTICIAH, 

185 St. James Street, 



Importer and Manufacturer 

OF 

MICROSCOPES, 

SURVEYING, 

MATHEMATICAL, 

AND 

SCIENTIFIC INSTRUMENTS. 



WM. HOTMAH & SOH, 



O. HILL, 

library 




lO PHILLIPS SQUARE, 

Bookseller and Stationer. 

English ancl American Periodicals 

And Illustrated Works- 

All Kinds o± Stationery. 

Cards Engraved — Orders for England, for Town and Country, or the 
United States, promptly attended to. Postage Stamps. 



ii» 






J. B. DUEOCHBR, Proprietor. 

JACQUES CARTIER SQUARE, opp, COURT HOUSE and CITE HALL 



MONT 






ran to u in 



17 and 19 BLEUHY STREET, 



MONTKEAL. 



•❖WILLIAM SAMUEL*- 



— IMPORTER OF — 



367 Notre Dame Street, 

[4 9 9 

K * 



V 

— .i^y» 



Prom tlL© Pest Enslish. Makers, 



-AND 



IN USE 

IN THE COLLEGES 



Manufacturer of F INE FURS. 

Highest Award for FINE FUSS, Dominion Exhibition, 1880. 

Fourteen First Prizes and Gold Medal, Provincial Exhibition, 1881. 

367 Notre Dame Street, Montreal. 

SCMMERHAYES & WALPORD 

-HcPfI0¥0GWPI^I^- 

No. 1 BLEURY STREET, 

yVloNTREAL. 

/r Spooial Rates for Stxidonts.'S^ | BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONER., 



The above Hotel is the best in the city for McGill College Tinners. 

h*5GE0. BROWN & S0NS5*- 

Mersfiant + Tailors, 

SHIRT & COLLAR MANUFACTURERS 

21 BLEURY STREET, 

NEXT DOOR TO NOTMAN’S. 

A. SPECIAL X0XSCOTT3STT TO STTTIDEISrTS- 

DAWSON BROTHERS. 

B. 0 OKSELLERS AND STATIONERS, 

HAVE REMOVED To 

3STO. 233 ST. JAMES STREET. 

SIGN OF THE GOLDEN OWL. 

ALL TEXT BOOKS AL -L KINDS 

OF 

NOTE BOOKS 

AND 

of | COLLEGE 

CANADA. REQUISITES. 




SIGN OF "'’HE GOLDEN OWL 

NO. S3 3 ST. JAMES STREET, 

NEAR VICTORIA SQUARE. 

DAWSON BROTHERS. 



real. 



