
VOL. VI. No. 4. 



TERMS : $1.00 Per Annum, in Advance. 



MeGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, FEBRUARY 1st, 1883. 



s 



Cl 






EDITORIAL COMMITTEE. 

Prof. Chas. E. Moyse, B.A., Consulting Editor. 

J. R. Murray, '83, Arts. R. F. Ruttan, B.A., ’84, Med. 

J. E. Martin, ’83, Law. R. F. Smith, ’83, Ap. Sc. 

W. H. Turner, ’84, Arts. j A. R. Davis, ’84, Ap. Sc. 

C. A. Duclos. B.A., ’84, Law. H. J. Harrisson, ’83, Med. 



The University Gazette is published on the first of every month during 
the College Session. 

Rejected Communications will not be returned, to which rule no exception 
can be made. The name of the writer must always accompany a communication. 



CONTENTS. 

„ PAGE. 

Editorials 1-2 

Contributions 2-4 

College World 4-5 

Between the Lectures 5-6 

Personals 6-7 

Correspondence 7 

Poetry 7"9 

New Books Received by Librarian 9 



Editorials. 



There are many subjects our opinions upon which we are time and again 
irresistibly led to express, if not for the benefit of others, at least for our 
own peace of mind, by the very force with which they are suggested to us. 
It may be that the discussion which ensues, itself reminds us of its periodical 
character, or, stranger still, it may occasionally happen that upon the main 
points of the argument we are all agreed. Nevertheless, it there be a 
worthy end to be gained even in the very dim future, it may not be alto- 
gether useless to serve up again at intervals what has already been pre- 
sented in many different ways. At present we wish to make a very brief 
reference to the subject of the representation of our Universities in Parlia- 
ment This is a question upon the principle of which we think most 
intelligent people are pretty well agreed. No one we imagine, whose 
opinion is worth mentioning, will deny that, theoretically, our Universities 
should be directly represented in Parliament. If our Universities do not 
include a wealthy portion of our community, they at least compose the 
most intelligent and the most highly educated. Most of the material in- 
terests of the country are fully represented in our Dominion Parliament. 
So that, on questions in every department of trade or the like, there is 



always some member who can speak with a certain authority, and who is 
listened to as particularly representing a class with whose occupations and 
wants he is intimately acquainted by experience. The lumbering, the 
agricultural, the cotton, the sugar, the fishing and shipping interests have 
all their spokesmen, while the professions, including the legal, are not with- 
out their representatives. Concerning questions in any of these spheres 
there is no lack of information in the House, and no lack of men who are 
capable of giving sound advice upon them, and of expressing the feelings of 
those most interested ; but when it comes to matters of literary, scientific 
or educational interest, there is no one who can speak in a similar way — 
there is no representative of what we make bold to call the collective cul- 
ture of the country. True, in many cases our members are the very ablest 
men who could be chosen, and often Graduates of our Universities ; but, at 
the same time, it would be an immense advantage to be able at any time 
to consult directly, through their representative, the wishes and opinions of 
what would be the most intelligent constituencies in the country, especially 
upon matters about which they would, from their education, be most com- 
petent to decide. There would then be someone inside the House to take 
an interest in those questions which have at present to be brought before 
the notice of members by deputations and petitions ; there would be some 
one to superintend educational measures on behalf of those engaged in the 
important occupation of teaching. A University member would be a 
man to whom discussions would often be referred, and remember- 
ing the respons'bility of his position, he would be very careful to 
give exact information, and to act and vote discreetly. It may be objected 
that most of those who pass through the Universities have actually the right 
of voting, if not at once, at least after they have become settled in profes- 
sions, business or the like. We consider that what we have said above is 
sufficient answer to this. At present most of the Graduates of the Universi- 
ties possess the right of voting, but, scattered through a hundred con- 
stituencies their influence as voters is simply nil. What we want is that 
they should be allowed to express their opinions collectively as members of 
a University, in addition to any fortuitous right which they may possess 
under other qualifications. But although we may be all agreed upon the 
advisability of this as far as theory goes, a great difficulty is felt to arise in 
the practical carrying out of the scheme. And what is the cause of this 
difficulty ? The cause of it is the cause of many another of our difficulties, 
a phase of our national life, which impedes our progress in educational 
matters, and therefore our general advancement more perhaps than any- 
thing else. We refer of course to that vicious sectarian spirit which leads a 
nation of less than five million souls to establish a dozen or more 
Universities where three or four at the very most would more than suffice. 
It would seem as if every little church and sect must have its University, 
and every town that boasts five thousand inhabitants its school of Medicine, 
as if education \\ere not abo\e and beyond all the petty divergences of 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[February ist, 



religious opinion. This state of things is surely to be deplored, as the 
evident result of clannishness and bigotry. And yet, notwithstanding the 
obstacles which are thus presented to the carrying out of the project, we 
have no doubt that means could be devised for overcoming them. What is 
required is that sufficient interest should be aroused in the matter, and 
someone found in Parliament willing to fight the battle there. In the Old 
Country the Universities are represented, and send some of the ablest men 
to the House of Commons. Why the system does not prevail in the 
United States we do not know, but we suppose that the same obstacles 
from the same cause exist there as in our own country. Should we ever 
have the good fortune of sending a representative to Parliament, we feel 
sure that we shall have no difficulty in finding a man capable in every 
respect of filling the position. 



The Star has written upon the recent fracas between our medicals 
and the Police Court officials. Whether the reporter drew on his imagina- 
tion or that of the French officials for his facts, must always remain with 
us a deep and unfathomable mystery. At any rate, all who were present 
admit they were highly instructed by the report. 

Subjects in abundance could be obtained by legal means, says the 
editor, Our Demonstrator would be delighted to have that well -posted 
individual call and show him the ropes he professes to know so well. We 
have not half our complement of material for dissecting yet, and the session 
is three fourths passed. 

The fact is, while we do not think that rescuing fellow-creatures from the 
grave is a commendable act on the part of a medical student, we do assert 
that to the present state of the Anatomy laws in our Province is largely 
due the dimensions to which the practice of body snatching has of late years 
reached. 

It is a well-known fact that unclaimed bodies in our inebriate, pauper, 
and idiot asylums, in numbers sufficient to supply the dissecting rooms of 
Montreal, are never given up by the officials of these Public Institutions. 
We have not space to reply in detail to the attack, unjust though it was, 
made bn medical students as a class, but for the benefit of those who have 
not heard an impartial history of the affair, we print in another column a 
very fair account. Sweet are the uses of adversity, and this affair, although 
unpleasant for the time being, clearly proved by the number of med .’s who 
turned out that among them there is no lack of “ esprit de corpse ”. 



In another part of the Gazette will be found a communication on the 
subject of written examinations. The writer’s logic is defective, and he 
regards the question, or rather questions at issue, from a confined point of 
view. He condemns written examinations as unsatisfactory and proposes a 
remedy to prevent the evils he deplores. In oral tests he finds a boon tp 
the mentally infirm and a device which shall do away with cramming, idle- 
ness and the temptation to use unfair instruments at the critical moment of 
trial. To speak with authority on the relative merits of written and viva 
voce examinations requires time, manifold experience, and sound criticism 
on the part of the judge, but this much may be said — that the intellectually 
weak class of students who, in the opinion of the correspondent, feel 
aggrieved at the result of certain educational work, is precisely the class 
which would inevitably suffer from an unwritten ordeal. A man who from 
carelessness allows himself to appeal, on paper, in a worse light than he 
would do, were he reasonably careful — and he is not “ right ” but distinctly 
wrong in supposing that an examiner can disregard carelessness — will 
naturally shrink from an oral examination, since his fault bids fair to be 
clearly exposed there, and unless the examiner be endowed with a remark- 
able share of good temper, leniency and sympathy, and have ample leisure to 
boot, will find his carelessness telling rapidly and irremediably against him. 
The man who is slow will fare no better, since he will discover the “ door 
of memory ” bolted, by nervousness, more securely than ever. A person 
uniformly careless and with memory not moderately tenacious, mistakes his 
vocation when he enters a University. Care and mental retentiveness are 
qualities essential to a true student, just as skill of hand and of eye are 
essential to a true artificer, and an examiner not only expects these, but is 
morally bound to discover if they exist. Again, some examinations ought 



to be tests of reasoning power, others mainly of memory, since some sub- 
jects of study appeal to reason more emphatically and persistently than to 
mere statements of fact. Quis custodiet custodes, the writer virtually asks— 
a difficult problem to solve, but it may reasonably be granted that an 
examiner knows his subject better than his pupil, and that a shorter or 
longer experience has brought to the questioner some skill in framing sets 
of questions. Details which seem trivial are often asked with as much 
justice as those which seem all-important, but with a sound examiner they 
are reckoned at their true worth. The suggestion in regard to the method by 
which a batch of answers should be estimated is not novel, and is acted on 
every day. “ The workers are those who take the highest places in the 
examinations.” Precisely : they have, as a body, always done so and so 
will continue to do The examiner never has any difficulty in ascertaining 
his best men ; they are known by their fruits. The men who are justly 
styled “ half-workers ” and “ crammers,” cause him the perplexity he often 
suffers. People who are careless, whose memories are bad, who read by 
fits and starts, and who rely on super-heated mental processes, had better 
be content with written examinations, in which they are, in so far as they can 
be, placed at their ease, are allowed some time for marshalling their scattered 
thoughts in respectable order and for revising their work. “Cramming” 
stands, we fear, as an eternal verity, and for examinations of wide and 
varied scope, hasty final revision seems necessary, but if this is superadded 
to a fair knowledge of the groundwork of the subject, the examiner knows 
how to deal with it if it becomes apparent. “ Cramming ” pure and simple, 
is another thing. A candidate who was being examined in Trigonometry at 
one of the Cambridge “locals” in England, wrote De Moivre’s theorem 
neatly and correctly, but from his treatment of the remaining questions, 
showed absolute ignorance of the meaning of the Trigonometical ratios of 
an angle. His destiny was evident. Oral Examinations have their merits : 
if severe, they are quick and decisive. None but men who have ready 
mental parts, together with self-confidence, and who have read equably and 
steadily, look forward to them with equanimity. They have their drawbacks, 
too. They cannot easily be made universal and must, if searching, be 
disastrous to the mentally infirm; moreover, in them the peculiarities of an 
examiner who is at the same time a specialist are liable to have sway, since 
he cannot readily take a just yet comprehensive view of the field of work. 
This he may possibly take when he composes, at his leisure, questions that 
are made generally public and lie open to criticism. Examinations are 
deemed evils, but still they are necessary. They do, as at present consti- 
tuted fulfil, in the main, the ends they are intended to serve. As to the 
complaints of the students who think they have been unjustly dealt with— 
these likewise are inevitable. In some cases we may imagine them not 
causeless, but the man who stands second in any competition, mental or 
physical, can always give excellent reasons why he should have been first. 



NOTICE. 

The McGill University Gazette offers a prize of ten dollars to the 
writer of the best story, whether in prose or verse — the length not to exceed 
three pages of the journal— contributed to the March issue. The com- 
petitors must be Graduates or Undergraduates of McGill College, and each 
is requested to place a motto on his contribution, and the same motto on 
the outside of a sealed envelope containing the same. The contributions 
must be sent in not later than February 1 5th. 



(Contributions. 

( We are not responsible for any opinions expressed in this column . — Ed.^ 

The Scientific Canadian takes a new name unto itself with the beginning 
of the new year— The Canadian Magazine of Science and the • Industrial 
Arts. 1 he services of Prof. Bovey, of McGill College, have been secured 
editorially, and the inaugural number is one of decided promise. It opens 
with a short article, by Prof. Murray, on Technical Education, which is 
both philosophical and practical. Prof. Murray maintains, as against Mr. 
Ruskin and those swayed by sentiment rather than by fact, that the in- 
troduction of complicated machinery does not tend to lessen skilled manual 
labour, but on the contrary, heightens it. The other articles are of a purely 



>88 3 .] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



scientific cast. “ Cable Traction for Tramways and Railways ” is discussed 
by C. F. Findlay, C. E., a well known engineer, and his contribution con- 
tains much interesting matter regarding the use of cables for street cars in 
the large cities of the United States. Mr. Bayzand Ellington of London, 
Eng., writes on Hydaulic Lifts, and states that no precaution can elimi- 
nate considerable risk. We are pleased to observe a paper by Mr. Dow- 
ling, a student of McGill College, on Division D of the Ontario and Quebec 
Railway, giving a detailed account of the more interesting features of that 
portion of the line. Considerable space is devoted to astronomy. Dr. 
Johnson, of McGill College, describes in a pleasing manner what is meant 
of the transit of Venus and why it is so important to astronomers. He also 
appends a few notes on the preparations made at McGill College for observ- 
ing it. The remainder of the Magazine is taken up with scientific odds and 
ends of varying interest and value. The Canadian Magazine rejoices in a 
perfect wealth of illustrations reflecting, on the whole, credit on the engraver. 
We notice two specimens of the typograpical reproduction of photographs ; 
one illustrating the various positions of the body of a soldier taking the pas 
de parade , the other representing three successive attitudes of a horse clear- 
ing a fence. They are somewhat blurred, but this we are told is due to the 
defect in the original stereotype. The Canadian Patent Office Record 
forms an appendix to the Magazine and consists of thirty-six pages of small 
type and illustrations, one hundred and forty-one in number. This part of 
the publication cannot fail to be of great interest to practical men. The 
prospectus states that “ the efficiency and success of this Magazine, the only 
one of the kind in Canada, must depend upon the hearthy co-operation and 
support ol the public.” The Canadian Magazine of Science deserves gene- 
rous acknowledgement from those engaged in the various branches of 
science, and we think we may predict a successful career for it, since it is 
guided by energetic and competent hands. The subscription price is 
$2.50 per annum, payable in advance, and the Magazine is published 
monthly. 



Written Examinations. 

At this time of the year a few remarks concerning the system of examina- 
tions pursued at this and most, if not all, other Universities on this conti- 
nent, will not he deemed out of place. That written examinations are un- 
satisfactory, few who are conversant with them will deny. We are all 
familiar with the statement made by many students after an examination : 
u I could have answered any other questions, but those or some of those 
put.” The distrust, with which this complaint is generally received, is most 
unfair to those making it ; for a little consideration will show that, were 
there not good reason for it, it would not be heard so frequently, nor from 
such a large number of students. Then again, we all know how prevalent 
are feelings of discontent, when the results of examinations are made known 
to those who have undergone them. The cause of all this dissatisfaction, 
wbile examinations are being held and after they are over, is to be found in 
the diversity of tastes, character and habits, which exists among professors 
and students alike. Thus, for example, some students find it difficult to be 
diffuse ; others, equally difficult to be concise ; some are careful and pains- 
taking ; others, careless ; some, quick ; others, the reverse. All these traits 
will appear in the answers given on an examination paper. Yet the care- 
less student will not consider that justice has been done him, if, on account 
of his carelessness, he is given a low standing ; and he is right. The slow 
student, also, is frequently aggrieved, because in his estimation sufficient 
time has not been given to allow him to complete his paper ; and he is right. 
The student, who is diffuse, or he who is concise, will fare better or worse, 
according to the disposition of the examiner ; both at different times will feel 
sore under a consciousness of wrong done them ; and they are right. Ex- 
aminations are not tests of character, at least such is not their professed 
aim. They are generally supposed to be a means of measuring the amount 
of knowledge a student possesses relatively to the other members of this 
class. This being so, there is no reason why students, whose character 
differs from that of their professor, should be made to suffer for it, as they 
undoubtedly are, under the present system of examinations. 

For, as a rule, the more thoroughly at home a student feels himself to be 
upon a subject, the more careless and concise will be the answers given by 
him in an examination Of course there are exceptions to this, but it holds 
<'ood of the majority of the students. Moreover, the nature of the questions 
put has much to do with the answers given by the different individuals 
composing a class. Some examinations, it is notorious, are only tests of 
memory, not of knowledge. These give an undue advantage to students 
gifted with quick memories. Some, again, appear to have been set for the 
purpose of finding out the plodders among students. In these the ques- 
tions usually have reference to facts, upon which no stress is laid in the 
text books, and whose small importance is shown by the slight reference 
made to them in the lectures. Such examinations are a god-send to those 
who read without judgment and spend much valuable time in committing 
trifles to memory. But even when the examination questions are carefully 
and judiciously chosen, the answers should not be considered individually ; 
but each paper should be valued as a whole, and after a careful comparison 
with the others. The reason of this is simple. Every one, who has passed 
several examinations, is familiar with that curious mental phenomenon, 
which, at times, seems to bolt the door of memory upon a certain fact or 



series of facts, with which, at other times, he is perfectly acquainted, and 
which, after the occasion for its use has gone by, rushes unbidden to the 
brain, with a startling vividness and appearance of reality. There are few, 
who have never suffered from this experience, which, indeed, is not con- 
fined to students at an examination, but is known to all classes, as, for 
example, when we strive unavailingly to recall a well-known quotation, an 
author’s name, or even, it may be, a familiar face. Frequently recurring as 
is this experience, it is never so much so as in examination-time ; and this, 
inasmuch as it must be fully recognized by all examiners, should render 
them exceedingly careful how they condemn a student for an apparent want 
of knowledge, which may be entirely due to the treachery of his memory. 

Leaving the subject of the fairness of written examinations as we have 
them in McGill, let us look upon them in another aspect. Let us ask 
whether they help to render more efficient the machinery of a College, 
whether they are not a drag upon it, whether they do not tend to retard 
the advancement of learning. Students may be roughly divided into three 
classes — workers, non-workers, and half-workers. The half-workers are 
named last, because they always occupy the lowest rank, and are very fre- 
quently plucked. The workers are those, who read steadily all through 
the session, attend all the lectures, and, unless of a too sanguine tempera- 
ment, take the highest places in the examinations The non -workers attend 
about three-fourths of the lectures and spend the rest of their time amusing 
themselves. When the examinations are near at hand, they apply them- 
selves to old calendars, from which they get a pretty accurate idea of the 
style of questioning of some examiners, and of the questions, that will 
actually be put by others. Thus prepared, they make the most profitable 
use of the time remaining to them, and always pass their examinations 
creditably, frequently being at the top of the ladder. The third class is 
made up of the weak-minded among students, of those who come to College 
with the best intentions, who frequently make good resolutions and as fre- 
quently break them, who work by fits and starts. Towards examination 
time, these students usually are very much alarmed, but become tranquil 
again through the use of the magic word cram. But day after day slips 
away, and they are always promising themselves to begin cramming to- 
morrow, until within a day or two of the first examination, when they set 
desperately to work, and, by their very lack of coolness, destroy the small 
chances they had of doing well. Now, it may be asked, what has the sys- 
tem of written examinations to do with all this ? It creates the second 
class, and demoralises the third. If, instead of having a students standing 
dependent upon two written examinations, it could be made to turn upon 
two vivd voce examinations, or, better still, half a dozen of such examina- 
tions, there would not be nearly so much cramming, nor so much idleness, 
nor such temptations to be dishonest and dishonorable, for all these would 
be rendered impossible. Even the workers would be benefited by the 
change, for it is well known that they spend much time learning over and 
over again what they already thoroughly know', the reason being that they 
must be prepared to answer every possible question, in order to be sure of 
taking a high place Furthermore, were oral examinations to be substituted 
for written ones, there would be much less room for discontent, since the 
questions could be made to cover a much wider range, and by increasing 
the number of examiners, the injustice to students resulting from the peculiar 
character of any one professor w'ould be counteracted by the different char- 
acters of the others. The only objection, we can see, to the change, is the 
inconvenience necessarily attendant upon the oral examination of a large 
number of students ; but when should convenience be considered before 
justice? So long as the present system of examinations remains in vogue, 
so long will there be jealousies, heart-burnings, and distrust of professors 
among the students, and men will continue to pass out of college with the 
same or even less knowledge than they had when they came in, to recruit 
the ranks of briefless barristers, starving physicians, and obscure clergymen. 

Hunt. 



What I Know About Still-Fishing, 
hi. 

BY INEZ. 

The reader will have observed that up to this point, I have exhibited a 
degree of patience under my misfortunes, that w’ould have done credit to 
an A 1 Stoic. When I now' found my line firmly fastened in the branch 
and that all my efforts to disentangle it were vain, I selected as dry a posi- 
tion as possible and sat calmly down to contemplate the wild enjoyment 
in which I had been indulging. Was it wdse thus to revel in the pleasure 
of the moment, forgetful of reaction and rheumatism? But such is life ; in 
the excitement incident to the pursuit of pleasure, the future is forgotten. 
While I was thus musing I had an intimation that the dry position which I 
had selected was not liable to squatter intrusion, as the proprietors (to wit 
a colony of gigantic ants) were in active possession, and 1 accordingly 
adjourned in some confusion, with my hand upon my heart and the ants 
doing a “ go-as you-please ” all over me. Having with considerable diffi- 
culty succeeded in disentangling myself from the ants, I turned my atten- 
tion once more to the fishing line. There it hung neatly spliced to the 
bough, and all my efforts to shake it off seemed only to make it cling the 



4 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



tighter. Then I tried to pull the bough down, but this proved an aggrava- 
tion, as it came within about two feet of my hands and do what I might I 
could not reach it. There was no help for it but to climb the tree, and 
this I had reserved as a last resource, knowing what a poor climber I had 
been as a boy and fully appreciating the decrease of activity that comes 
with advancing years. Fortunately the lowest branch of the tree was not 
very far up, and I managed to reach it without more serious accident than 
the barking of my shins. At last I came to the branch on which my line 
hung, and then with great caution I crept bear-like towards the gaol. Before 
I had proceeded far the branch began to sway ominously, and had there 
been any spectators, I am afraid that the sight of a portly elderly gentleman, 
looking very pale and nervous and carefully balancing himself on a swing- 
ing bough, whilst he kept his eye fixed anxiously on a still distant hook, 
would have moved them rather to smiles than sympathy. However, 
fortunately for me I had no audience, and so could not be said to have 
u made an exhibition of myself,” although Browne did think that expression 
appropriate when I recounted my adventures to him. But to proceed ; I 
had come almost within reach of the line and was stretching out my hand 
towards it when a gentle zephyr stirred the trees, my position became 
critical, I strove in vain to maintain my equilibrium and finally toppled 
over, crash went the branch, then a splash, a gurgle, a few ripples on 

the surface of the stream and . No ! all was not over, for in a few 

moments I struggled to my feet and came up spluttering, with my mouth 
full of mud and my clothing covered with weeds. I had the satisfaction, 
however, of finding that the hook which had been the cause of this my last 
misfortune was now within reach, and so having shaken myself as free of 
dirt as possible, I gathered up the rod and line, the can of potatoes and the 
bag of biscuits, and concluding that sport such as I had been indulging in 
was far too exciting for my nervous temperament, I started for the open, 
generously leaving all the fish for Browne. 

Having thus unfolded an unvarnished tale concerning the aquatic por- 
tion of my experiences in still-fishing, I need not further try the patience of 
the reader by a recital of the woes which resulted from that experience. 
When I once again passed the portals of my home, it was with a feeling of 
infinite appreciation of the comforts of civilization, and as I laid my weary 
limbs between the comfortable sheets that night, I registered a vow that 
the most enticing weather, coupled with seductive promises of speckled 
beauties innumerable, should henceforth have no power to beguile me to 
such hardships as I had endured. It is, however, only fair that Browne’s 
view of the question should be laid before the reader. Browne brought 
home about two hundred beautiful shining trout in his basket and an 
exhiliarating sense of victory in his heart, and this fully compensated him 
for the difficulties he had undergone. For myself I entered on a calcula- 
tion of the expenses of the trip, including besides travelling expenses, 
damaged clothes, loss of weight, and general discomfort, and setting these 
against the value of the fish, I decided that for the future I would devote 
my energies to my profession exclusively, and seek for speckled beauties 
and other finny treasures in the less dangerous recesses of the market place. 



(CoUcqc mn-lcl, 

McGh-l. 

The meetings of the Undergraduates’ Literary Society have not been 
very well attended since Christmas. The following are the programmes : — 

January 12th. — Readi/ig , W. H. Turner. 

Subject for Debate — “ Resolved, that the North-West offers greater advan- 
tages to the University Graduate than the Eastern Provinces.” 

Affirmative— Messrs. Mackay, Kennedy and Calder. Negative — Messrs. 
Turner, F. Pedley and Holden. 

January 19th. — Essay — A. A. Mackay. 

Debate — “ Resolved, that Reciprocity with the United States would be 
beneficial to Canada. 

Affirmative — Messrs. F. Pedley and McOuat. Negative — Mr. Hibbard. 

The McGill College Glee Club held its first regular practice on Saturday, 
January 20th. Though the number of students present was not so large as 
it might have been, yet the practice was a great success — those present 
evincing gratifying enthusiasm and patience in following the instructions 
of the teacher, which argues well for the future of the club. The com- 
mittee is to be congratulated on its wisdom in the choice of a teacher. All 
who are acquainted with the energy and great love for music possessed by 
Mr. Mills, will recognize the advantage the club has obtained by securing 
his services. It will be well, however, for the students to bear in mind 
that the actual success or failure of the club rests with them. We believe 
that it is a duty they owe to themselves and to each other to support by all 
means in their power this effort to lighten the tedium of their studies, for it 
is to be borne in mind that music will refresh the mind more than anything 
else. Besides, the Glee Club will afford an opportunity for that pleasant 
social intercourse, from which the students of McGill, as non-residents, are 
so largely debarred. 

McGill Medical Society . — The sixth meeting of this Society was held on 



[February 1st, 



Saturday evening, January 20th, Dr. Stephen, the President, in the chair. 
After the usual business was transacted a reading was given by Mr. Harri- 
son, followed by a paper by Mr. Clement on “ Investigations into the pork 
supply of Montreal.” The paper gave the results of investigations made by 
Dr. Osier and Mr. Clement during last summer, and was of interest, as 
showing to what extent the pork supply of this city was contaminated. 
These investigations show the percentage of animals infected to be much 
less here than in either the United States or Germany. The percentage 
is so low as not to necessitate at present the making of a careful microscopic 
examination of all pork and beef offered for sale as is done in Germany. 
The sanitary effect that cooking had on these meats was also pointed out. 
The thanks of the Society are due to Mr Clement for his very instructive 
paper. During the evening the Pathologist exhibited microscopic speci- 
mens of lung tissue in health and disease The next meeting will be held 
the first Saturday in February. 

For the benefit of those who wish to know the true version of the late 
trouble between the Medicals and the Police, we print the following 
account : — 

On Monday evening the 22nd inst., a letter was received by the McGill 
Medical students, from the Victoria Medical School, requesting them to 
attend the Police Court the following day, as a Victoria man was to be tried 
for body-snatching. Next day, the Primary students held a meeting and 
decided to go down to the Police Court in a body, to express their sym- 
pathy with their fellow-student of Victoria. They met at the Medical School, 
and marched down town in procession, two by two, singing College songs. 
On arriving at fhe Police Court, three hearty cheers were given for the 
Victoria Medical students. The procession then entered the building in a 
quiet and orderly manner, but were prevented from entering the Police 
Court by some excited officials, who declared that the students were not 
going to be allowed to enter, and create a disturbance. They were told 
that the McGill men had come down simply as spectators of the trial, and 
would preserve due order and decorum : but this had no effect. One official 
demanded to be let out, and said he would go and fetch the police. A way 
was made for him to pass, and as there was now no obstruction in the door, 
the students all filed in, and took up their positions quietly, completely 
filling the Court room, some of them standing on a window-sill to see 
better. One of their number rose and requested them to be careful to 
observe ali due respect for the Court, and to behave in an orderly and 
gentlemanly manner. This caused complete silence in the Court room. A 
pompous official then rose, and ordered the men on the window-sill to come 
down. These remarks created a laugh in the room, for it was simply 
impossible to obey the order, as the room was so crowded. A posse of 
police now appeared on the scene, and began to hustle some of the men, 
and pull them out of the room, but they were soon ordered to keep quiet, 
for the Magistrate had something to say. The Magistrate then ordered the 
High Constable to have the Court room cleared by whatever means were 
possible. As soon as the students heard this order, they moved in a body 
to leave the room, in the same quiet and orderly manner in which they had 
entered it. Unfortunately however, the police thought they would hurry 
matters, and began to lay about promiscuously with their batons, and to 
seize the walking sticks and bones that some of the men carried. It is 
hardly to be expected that any ordinary human beings will quietly submit 
to being clubbed on the head, shoulders and back, without any reason. The 
result was that a free fight ensued in the Court room, in the course of which 
the High Constable drew a revolver. The students finally withdrew, leav- 
ing two of their number in the hands of the police. Bail was immediately 
offered for their release, but was refused. Meanwhile, a series of skirmishes 
took place in the open ground between the City Hall and the Police Court. 
After some time, the students assembled on the Champ de Mars, and 
formed in procession, four deep, and marched, along Craig Street up to St. 
James Street, along this to McGill Street down to Notre Dame Street and 
back towards the Police Court. On the way, they were met by their two 
comrades, who had been discharged. The latter were promptly “ bounced ” 
amid great applause. A flag had meanwhile been procured, and was carried 
in front of the procession. The students marched in front of the Court 
house, and were addressed from the steps of the building by one of 
their number. He said that they should set the police authorities a 
better example in keeping the peace, than the latter had given them, and 
that they had better disperse and go home quietly, when he was ordered 
down, and the students were told to move on. This they did, and marched 
around the open space between the City Hall and the Court house, in the 
middle of which a large body of police was drawn up. The procession 
was moving off quietly, and about two-thirds of it had turned the corner of 
the City Hall facing the Champ de Mars, when suddenly the police charged 
the remaining third, which was somewhat straggling, and scattered them 
effectually, and made six arrests. We understand from one of the daily 
papers that this was done by the orders of one of the Aldermen, and that 
the police were told by their serjeants to await their chiefs orders. The 
valiant Alderman, however, led the way himself, and the police in spite of 
their officers, broke their ranks, and followed his example. Such a lament- 
able lack of discipline cannot be too severely condemned. The procession 
formed again on Craig Street and marched up to the McGill Medical School, 
where a meeting was held to consider what was to be done about the affair. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



5 



x 88 3 ] 



We cannot help thinking that the whole trouble arose from the officiousness 
of certain officials in the Court, and the brutal manner in which the police 
treated the students, while the latter were trying to carry out the Magis- 
trate's orders. 

The librarian has received a notice to the effect that the Provost and 
Senior Fellows of Trinity College, Dublin, have presented the McGill Uni- 
versity Library with copies of all the books printed up to date at the Dublin 
University Press. The books have not yet arrived, but we believe they 
will consist chiefly of mathematical works, which will form a valuable addi- 
tion to the Library. 

Notice. — In future the University Library will be open on every lawful 
day from 9 a m. until 4 p.m., without any intermission in the middle of 

the day. 

GENERAL. 

John Bright will deliver his rectorial address to the students of Glasgow 
University, on March 12. and on the following evening address a public 
meeting in that city. 

Mr. Sandford Fleming, C.E , has beeh re-elected Chancellor of Queen’s 
University. Mr. Fleming has contributed $5,000 to the Endowment Fund 

A recent convention of French school-boys, presided over by Victor 
Hugo, demanded the abolition of examinations and the marking system. 

Senator Brown, of Georgia, has given to the State University at Athens, 
Ga., an endowment of $50,000 for the education of poor young men. 

The professors of the Medical College at Kingston find it difficult to 
duplicate the lectures, and it is said there is a gradual shifting towards the 
old practice of uniting the sexes for class work. There is murmuring, and 
unless diplomacy is exercised the difficulty may become as great and 
vexatious as ever. Correspondence is now being conducted between the 
Faculty and students. The former are strengthened since the previous re- 
bellion by the action of the governors of the other colleges. The Faculty, 
however, will not be disposed to violate its late arrangement, if such can 
be avoided. 

It is very amusing to note the tone of conscious superiority which some 
of our friends in Upper Canada occasionally assume when speaking of 
themselves and their doings, evidently forgetting now and again that there 
is such a place as the Province of Quebec. We have noticed this especially 
in their comparison of the standings of the different football clubs in the 
Dominion. A short, time ago we were rather surprised to see Toronto 
University Football Club spoken of as the first in Canada, recollecting as 
we did that for the last two years our own Club had signally defeated them. 
In the January issue of the Queen's College Journal the R.M.C. Cadets are 
spoken of as “ one of the finest, if not the finest, of our Canadian Clubs ”. 
Now the Cadets have certainly a very fine Club, but at the same time it is 
by no means the finest in Canada, any more than is the Toronto University 
Club. Not to speak of other Clubs in this city, our own has defeated the 
R.M.C. Cadets on two occasions within the last two years. It is not any 
feeling of jealousy which leads us to point out these errors : our object is 
merely to remind Upper Canadians generally of one of their little faults 
which appears rft>t alone in their sporting gossip, but is at times seen even 
in their more serious compositions, and which is in truth but an aspect of 
provincialism. 

The Hon. F. Sloane presented the Principal of Morrin College with a 
cheque for $500 last month. The money is to form a fund for another 
bursary. 

Upon the death of the wife of the late Lewis H. Morgan, $100,000 is to 
go to Rochester University for the education of women. 

Wendell Phillips has recently made to the Boston Public Library a gift 
of 1,303 bound volumes and 4,682 pamphlets. 

The general summary of the Harvard catalogue for ’82-’83, shows that 
the University has 163 teachers, 6 t officers of all sorts, and 1,428 students. 

The Yale Courant , which has been the property of Mr. F. V. McDonald, 
’78, and which has cost him about $5,000, a great deal of time, etc., has 
been presented to the students, “ to be owned and controlled by them.” 

The University of Berlin has 215 professors. 

Mr. Ruskin will be invited to fill again the chair of Fine Arts at Oxford 
University, vacated by Mr. Richmond. — Ex. 

Maynooth College, in Ireland, is the largest ecclesiastical college in the 
world. It has now more than 500 students, candidates for the priest 
hood. — Ex. 

We have received the following: — The Sunbeam, The Morrin College 
Review , The Dalhousie Gazette, The Queen's College Journal, The Wolles - 
took Gazette, Kings College Record, The Presbyterian College Journal, The 
Harvard Advocate . 



tfJctiueen the % tctnvcs . 



Professor’s Song. — Bye, baby bye. 

Student’s Song. — Bobby make room for the students. 

Policeman’s Song. — A policeman’s life is not a happy one. 

What is the difference between an unlucky student and a goose ? One 
is examined before he is plucked, and the other is plucked before it is 
examined. 

“Did Mr. B — call in my absence, John? “No mum! but Mr. Thank 
Heavens did, leastways when I told him you were out, and asked what 
name to give you he said — kind of low like,” “Missed her, thank heavens. — 
Ex. 

The femur seems to have been the bone oj contention in the late student- 
police fracas. 

As Mr. Calverley, well-known at Cambridge for his eccentric ability, was 
showing some visitors over his College, they passed along the “quad.” He 
picked up a pebble from the path, and threw it into an open window. 
“That’s the Dean’s window,” and as an irate gentleman suddenly appeared, 
he said, with great sang froid, “and that’s the Dean !” 

Motto for the rebellious primaries : specie recti 

The year 1883 is like a Montreal audience at an opera, only one comes 
before for three after. 

“Oh, you be darned,” said McMeekin, as his foot went thro’ the heel. 

The Kingston female medical students have adopted the following dis- 
secting-room flirtation with their brother students : Drop a scalpel — You 
butcherknife snap the forceps — What are you giving us? Tap the chin with 
the scalpel — Hit someone your size. Roll a bandage in the right hand — 
never roll it in the left hand. Well, hardly ever. Pronate the “sub’s” 
right hand — Wipe off your chin. Fold the “sub’s” arms. I regard you 
as a six-foot fool. Hold the scalpel by the teeth. I’ll put a head on you. 
Slap over the “sub’s” tuber ischium. — Look out ; I carry a razor. 

To Wall-Paperers. On sale at our sanctum a few rules of best essay 
paper, embroidered with violet ink. The first verse runs as follows : 

A mildew fox with a sun-burned tail, 

Sang loud in a cinnamon sky ; 

Whilst a guinea-pig with a short toe nail, 

Whistled a lullaby. 

Effect on our associate who read it : 

He broke all his teeth on the very first line, 

And he groaned as he tied up his jaw. 

I’ve got ’em again and had better resign 
For it’s the worst I ever saw. 

Some of our over worked final men are working off some neural cob- 
webs by tri-weekly equestrian exercise. One of their number got all the 
exercise he wanted the other day and as he limped to the sidewalk to rest 
himself after taking so much exercise, a kind fiiend asked him “What he 
came down so quick for?” “ What did I come down so quick for?” “ Did 
you see anything up in the air for me to hold on to ?” 

The professor, after showing a certain experiment to the class in Physics 
said, “ From this experiment you see, gentlemen, that my tongue is really 
a small elementary cell”. Amid much laughter the class agreed with him, 
though some deprecated the professor’s modesty in not proclaiming his 
tongue a great advanced sell. 

Wanted. — An elevator to be placed in Molson’s Bank, to elevate Law 
students to the lecture room, and more particularly to take them down in a 
hurry when they slope. The professors will still continue to use the stair- 
case : as they come so seldom they can bear the fatigue. 

Address, “The Thirty Six Dollar Men.” 

A sophomore of the Science Faculty was observed one evening recently, 
marshalling six young ladies down Sherbrooke Street at about 8 o’clock. 
We would strongly advocate moderation to that youth and would also 
caution him to beware of the Seniors, who would be very indignant if they 
discovered their privileges were being infringed upon in such a manner. 

An observant Professor in the Arts Faculty can easily recognize his 
students by the appearance of their gowns. At a recent lecture he noticed 
there was one present without this indispensable article of apparel and 
immediately exclaimed, “I see a stranger in the room.” The youth had 
been accustomed to burns from his earliest exis'ence, but this one was so 
severe that its effects were noticed in his radiant countenance. He mod- 
estly retired. 

“ Come into the parlor, Maud.” — AIJred Tennyson . 

We are informed that the poet Laureate is desirous of becoming a Granger . 



6 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[February ist, 



Books which might be written and added to the College Library : — 
Conjugal Felicity — M c Meekin . 

Freshman's Fights — Stevens. 

Points of Order — Ruttan. 

Reporting and the Press, by a late demon of the London Advertiser . 

“ Petitions " — Wood. 

Orator's Compendiums — Harkin . 

Harmony and Vocal Culture — Prof. Poole. 

Osteology — Hart. 

Structure of the Fibula — White. 

After-dinner Speeches — Dr. Con. 

Poets of the Present Age — Platt. 

Painters and Painting — Carter. 

What I Know about Roiuing — Eberts. 

Are Freshman Human Beings ? — Arthur. 

Wolves in Sheep's Clothing — Sury. 

Processionals by Laymen — Mr. Merrit. 

One of our classical wits when asked the other day to translate into 
Latin the words “ naked Zulu,” promptly replied, “ nud(e)os nig(g)er ” . 
We consider that the gentleman runs a good chance of the Chapman medal. 

Can any student of Philology explain how Deo volente, God willing, has 
come to mean practically Die volant e, weather permitting ? Will not some 
of our Theologs rise and explain ? 

A learned professor, addressing one of his class, asked if he knew what 
was animal magnetism. “ I er — er did know, but I have forgotten,” was 
the answer. Calmly came the scathing rejoinder, showing that even learned 
professors sometimes have a sense of humor: “Gentlemen, this is very 
unfortunate. Mr. Jones, the only man who ever knew, has forgotten what 
animal magnetism is ! ” — Every Saturday. 

A young lady has kindly sent us the following excellent enigma which 
has never before appeared in print : — 

ENIGMA. 

Though young, I am a character well known to all the Queen’s subjects. 

1 represent Majesty, and am more nearly allied to Royalty than Prince Albert 
himself. 

However high and dignified the rank and title of any person in the Kingdom, 
my situation is above them all. 

Should Q^ueen Victoria herself require my services, she would place me at her 
right hand. 

I wa 5 created by the highest peers and greatest people of the realm, wear a crown 
and am continually in office; yet I never issue a command, though I fre- 
quently authorize others to do so. 

Though of an erratic disposition, and having an unlimited and unrestricted range 
through the British dominions, I am continually in one or other of her 
Majesty’s prisons, and only one person has the power of liberating me. 

I am a great traveller, though I have neither arms nor legs ; though of a peace- 
able disposition, I have more scars on my face than the Duke of Wellington. 
I have only one rival, and though occasionally he usurps my prerogative he is 
•but a base substitute, and never takes my place. 

I was born black, but now my complexion is ruddy, yet when overburdened I 



One of our readers who was much pleased with the problems which we 
gave in our last issue requests that we will continue the same, as he consi- 
ders that they will be of considerable benefit to many who may be prepar- 
ing for the approaching examinations on Galbraith and Haughton’s Manuals. 
We comply with his wish. 

PROBLEMS (Continued). 

2. The quantity of work a man can do varies directly as the quantity of 
beer he has taken that day, and inversely as the bad temper of his wife. 
The wife’s quantity of work varies directly as her husband’s good temper, 
and inversely as his idleness. Her bad temper varies inversely as her 
quantity of work, and his bad temper varies directly as his wife’s and in- 
versely as the beer. Supposing that when the man drinks 2 and 3 quarts 
of beer a-day alternately, he and his wife can together do a certain piece of 
work in 6 days, find how long they would take to do the same piece of 
work, if the man drank 5 quarts a-day, and find 

( a ) How much beer the man must drink per diem for his wife to do 
twice as much work as she would, if he drank a gallon a-day. 

( b ) What sort of temper the wife would be in at the end of the fifth day, 
if her husband had drunk two gallons a-day for three days and three for the 
other two. 

4. 'The number of “ shady ” men who are passed by a Paley Examiner, 
varies as the cube root of the number of minutes he can devote to his 
breakfast. The length of time he occupies in shaving varies inversely as 
the temperature of the water which continually decreases in Harmonical 
Progression. His speed in dressing varies as the inverse square of the 
height of the Thermometer. Supposing that 90 per cent, of the candidates 
pass when the Thermometer is at 45° Fahrenheit; and the water at 75 0 , the 
Examiner being called at the usual time; find how many out of 250 men 
will be plucked if he be called 5 minutes late, when the mercury is at the 
freezing point, and the water at 45 0 . Investigate also the amount of risk 
incurred by a man who neglects his alligators, 

( 1 ) When the Examiner neglects his shaving ; 

(2) When he neglects his breakfast. 

6. At a Christmas party a mistletoe-bough is suspended in the hall at a 
time ti, and the party adjourn into the supper-room at a time t.>. There 
are m and n males and females respectively, of a kissing age, present ; and 
it is observed that the duration of a kiss, including the preliminaries, varies 
directly as the square of the bashful ness of the gentleman, and as 
the cube of the bashfulness of the lady. Find the chance of a certain 
gentleman kissing a certain lady before supper, (1) when the comparative 
bashfulness and attraction of the individuals are neglected; (2) when the 
bashfulness of each individual is observed to decrease in g. p. as the even- 
ing proceeds, and the gentleman under consideration has p plain sisters 
present who may be neglected. 

vi. A stout genleman in turning the corner of a lane suddenly finds him- 
self in the presence of a bull, which immediately pursues him with a uniform 
velocity v. An observer at a safe distance calculates that the gentleman’s 
speed varies inversely as the square of his distance from the bull, and as 
the «th inverse power of his own weight. 

Supposing the gentleman’s initial velocity to be u, and that the heat of 
the weather causes his weight to vary inversely as the cub% of the time he 
has been running, find when the bull will catch him if the initial distance 
between the two be a 



become blue in the face. 

The poor can buy me, but the rich cannot sell me. 

Under my protection the most ardent lover can successfully urge his suit, and 
the most timid maiden return his vows. 



personals. 



I am so much esteemed that not a day passes but I am asked for, yet there is 
scarcely a tongue in England that is not raised against me. 

Though much sought after, my acquaintance generally cut me when they become 
known to me. 



Mr. F. W. Thomas, B.A., ’82, of the London foot-ball club, has been’ 
elected a member of the Management Committee of the Ontario Rugby 
Union. 



I grow older every day, but I shall never become grey-headed, even if I have no 
recourse to Macassar Oil. 

Though I never learned the alphabet, I cannot be called unlettered. 

My company is not very select: I am as well known to the veriest rascal as I am 
to goodness and virtue. I assist in carrying out and concealing the basest 
schemes. Mr. Smith O’Brien himself might not have been in prison but 
for my assistance. 

I suppose I must be called a Liberal, both in politics and religion, as I favour 
Tories, Radicals, Churchmen — High and Low, and Dissenters, equally; and 
withal you must allow that I am a loyal subject, as I assist in supporting her 
Majesty’s Government. 

I must not conceal another failing; for a small sum I give my countenance to 
the most nefarious and wicked schemes, and closely connect myself with 
proceedings which, under a fair outside, conceal the most artful and base 



II. E. Heyd, M D., ’8 r, has gone to Buffalo, N. Y., and commenced 
practice. 

Kenneth A. J. McKenzie, M.D., ’81, has opened an office in Portland, 
Oregon. 

Dr. Wm. McEachran (McGill ’79) V. S., for the last three years one of 
the lecturers at the Montreal Veterinary College, has gone to Winnipeg to 
commence practice as a Veterinary Surgeon. 

J B Lawford, M.D., ’79, is at present at Bethlehem Hospital, London, 
acting as one of Dr Savage’s assistants. He was previously for some time 
Mr. Nettleship’s assistant in the Ophthalmic Department of St. Thomas’ 
Hospital, and at the meeting of the Ophthalmological Society of Great 
Britain on the 14th January, read a paper on “ Central Amblyopia in 
Diabetes.” 



transactions. 

Not to make myself, however, worse than I am, I must add that I am faithful in 
m^' services, and am a close adherent to those I once join and assist. 

If those hints will not suffice, watch every one that approaches you narrowly, for 
there are few in a house who do not wish to have a visit from me every day. 



Ovide Wartel, ’83, represented McGill at ti e dinner of the Undergradua- 
tes of Victoria Medical College, which was held at the Richelieu, the night 
of January 30th. 

We are sorry to learn that Mr. J. W. Moffatt, ’83 Applied Science, is un- 



1 88 3 .] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



7 



able to return to College owing to the effects of typhoid fever with which 
he was laid up before Christmas. We hope, however, that he will return 
next session fully restored. 

Mr. R. F. Smith has been elected to the staff of the University Gazette 
by the Faculty of Applied Science to fill the vacancy caused by Mr. Moffat’s 
absence . 



(Correspondence. 



To the Editors of the McGill Gazette. 

Sirs, 

It has always seemed to me that the system of education pursued in our 
common schools is but ill calculated to prepare boys for the struggle to 
make a living, which in the majority of cases begins as soon as they leave 
school. After boys are taught to read, write, and figure, they learn little 
that can be of any practical use to them in after life. Even the small 
amount of knowledge they do get is given in a way that renders it worse 
than useless to them, serving only to perplex their minds. For they are 
required to commit to memory a mass of facts, concerning which they never 
reason, and which they are not even allowed to state in their own words 
when reciting — a significant word — their lessons. Often have we heard 
teachers, intelligent and well-meaning in other respects, check a boy, when 
attempting to give his own idea of a subject, with the words, “Stick to your 
book, sir,” or the more sarcastic, “You can’t improve on the book.” This 
very injudicious proceeding has the effect, which might be expected, and 
the boys, never having any opportunity to express themselves naturally and 
freely in school and being busily engaged in play out of school, go into the 
world without a single clear idea, and with their minds a confused jumble of 
undigested facts. To all intents and purposes their real education does not 
begin until they have left school. Then, when it does begin, it often proves 
of a most pernicious kind. Why is it that there is so much rascality in the 
world, and that the amount increases in a direct ratio with the number o f 
educated men ? Is it not because the education given to the masses is 
entirely secular ; because it affords no scope to their reasoning powers ; 
because it gives men only such knowledge as adds to the temptations with 
which they have to struggle, without at the same time giving them addi- 
tional means to overcome those temptations? The remedy for this state of 
things is not very difficult of attainment. Let religious as well as secular 
instruction be given to the pupils in our schools. Give them every oppor- 
tunity to exercise their reasoning faculties Teach them a little logic, even 
a little political science, if that be necessary. Give them clear and decided 
ideas of the difference between right and wrong, honour and dishonour, hon- 
esty and dishonesty. Do this and we shall have fewer athiests, fewer 
people led blindly by the arts of the demagogue, fewer interested politicians 
ready to sell their country’s best interests for their own personal advance- 
ment, fewer faithless cierks and dishonest merchants. 

Your obedient servant, 

X. 



Cribbing and Cribbers. 

To the Editors of the McGill Gazette 

Dear Sirs, — 

The time draws nigh, when the student’s knees will begin to shake and 
his hand to tremble, when his sleep will be short and broken by horrid 
dreams. In fact the examinations will soon be upon us. In some colleges, 
it is not merely the lazy or idle student, who has cause to dread the exam- 
ination. For him 1 disclaim all sympathy. But another kind of student 
may well feel uneasy about the result. I mean the one, who, during the 
term has worked hard and honestly, in order to do well in the examination 
and win such honours as the University may have in store for him. He will 
probably derive small comfort from knowing, that a large number of the 
students will pass their examinations by means of a free use of cribs, and 
that one of these may carry off the highest prize in the class. Those who 
crib might be divided into two classes. Those in the first class merely 
“crib for a pass.” At first sight one would say that this is not such a very 
heinous offence. Who does not want to look kindly on the short-comings 
of little Mr. Bouncer in “Verdant Green,” arrayed in his phenomenal 
“examination coat” and armed cap d pie with dates on his shirt cuffs, a 
proposition from Euclid under his watch-glass and cards with translations 
upon them travelling up and down his coat-sleeves with the rapidity of 
lightning? But when we look closer, can we conscientiously wink at his 
little eccentricities? I fear not, although Mr. Bouncer has told us that : “If 
I were going in for honors, Giglamps old boy, it would be no end mean and 
dirty in me to crib. But it was only for a pass and to please the old 
lady you know.” In spite of this, the child is in this case very much the 
father of the man ; and a too lenient view of this mild type of cribbing has 
led in many instances to a more aggravated form of the disease, that form 
which even Mr Bouncer styled “no end mean and dirty,” I mean cribbing 
for high marks. But cribbing for a pass is in itself a very grave evil and 
especially is this so in Medicine. Who can answer for the results of allow- 



ing to a lazy, ill-prepared medical man, the care of an imperilled human 
life? Yet there is no doubt that in some colleges, this form of cribbing is 
all but openly condoned by the members of the Faculty ; or in other words, 
the practice is tacitly encouraged. The man of the second class, he who 
cribs for high marks, is not perhaps so directly dangerous to life . He is 
usually well enough up in his subjects and perhaps could pass easily by 
fair means. But who could sympathize with such a man ? Every honest 
student and examiner should abhor him. Who can believe that the man 
who cribs for honours, would hesitate to lie, steal or commit any other 
crime in the calendar, if it happened to serve his turn ? And yet what is 
he but the legitimate offspring of the first-class, advanced to a higher stage 
of development ? To judge by the amount of wholesale, barefaced cribbing 
which is done every year in some colleges, one would fancy it a very diffi- 
cult practice to prevent. And yet its prevention is so simple and easy, any 
examiner being able easily to stop it instantly, if he wants to do so that 
one can only wonder that any is allowed to go on at all. What could be more 
absurd and unjust than to draw an arbitrary line of demarcation, between 
talking during examination and passing written cribs ? Why should those 
confessedly guilty of the former be exonerated ; who would have been pun- 
ished, if convicted of the latter? To my mind, Mr. Editor, cribbing is 
cribbing under whatever form it shows itself. Why hesitate a moment in 
expelling a man from the room, when he is caught in the very act of talking 
to another man ? Immediate expulsion has always been the rule at Oxford, 
Cambridge, and in our own country at Toronto. Again, sir, can you tell me 
what is the actual gain in altitude of a “standard of examination” whose 
percentage merely has been raise*!, while want of proper supervision has 
thrown open a “royal road” to the cribber, who will assuredly hereafter 
prove small credit to his Alma Mater. It is no easy matter for the students 
to prevent the abuse of this child like confidence in the honour of the candi- 
dates. It should, however, be an easy enough one for the Faculty. Every 
examination should be sufficiently supervised by any Faculty having the true 
welfare of their college at heart, and all attempts at cribbing promptly pun- 
ished by suspension or expulsion Desperate diseases we are told need 
desperate remedies, and one or two such salutary examples with a prospect 
of more to follow, if needed, would do more to raise the standard of exam- 
ination than any “percentage” that ever appeared on paper. 

I have the honor to be, Sir, 

Your obedient servant, 

Veni, Vidi. 

Montreal, January 30th, 1883. 



To the Editors of the McGill Gazette. 

Sirs, 

I find that the manager of the Grand Theatre, Toronto, has made an 
arrangement with the students of that City, in which the students, by choos- 
ing some convenient evening on which they can attend in good numbers, 
“are admitted to all parts of the house at 75 per cent of the usual prices. 
If they choose to sit among ‘ The gods,’ they are permitted to enter by 
the private door, so as to obtain the best seats there.” 

Now Sir, what has been done in Toronto, can and should be done in 
Montreal. I do not doubt that Mr. Thomas, the enterprising manager of 
our Academy here, would be quite willing to follow the good example of 
his confrere in Toronto, provided that we can assure him of this new step 
proving a financial success. The College Glee Club ought to come forward, 
when possible, and aid the entertainment by songs between the Acts. The 
details of the matter could easily be arranged. Saturday night suggests 
itself to me, as a favorable one for students and rather a roomy one at 
theatres. What we want is immediate action in this matter. Some of our 
students should take the initiative and arrange with the students at the 
other schools to propose it to the manager. Let us strike while the iron is 
hot. Any communications on the subject may be addressed to the editors 
of the Gazette . 

Yours very sincerely, 

Footlights. 

Montreal, Dec. 21st, 1882. 

[We agree to a considerable extent with the remarks in this letter, and 
* shall be glad to receive further communications upon the subject. We pro- 
mise our hearty co-operation, provided means can be adopted for a proper 
discrimination between the plays which ought, and those which ought not, 
to be attended. — Eds.~\ 



poetry. 



The Prize Poem. 

[The prize of ten dollars for the best poem, written by a past or present 
student of McGill, has been awarded to Mr. W. McLennan, B.C.L , whose 
contribution we print herewith. ‘-Tentavi” (Mr. W. W. White) gains the 
second place. 

“The Night Before,*’ by “ B. H.,” while in parts amusing lacks point. 



8 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



The writer is led at times into weak repetition, and gives evidence of the 
strain on his poetical faculties. The lively rhythm canters along 
smoothly in some stanzas, but stumbles now and again. 

‘‘Jake” must conform to the laws of the mechanism of verse, and avoid 
writing in rimed metre in lines ranging from six to twelve syllables, unless 
his irregularities occur at regular intervals, and even then he will do well 
to avoid becoming a disciple of Southey in any way. “Jake ” can, we 
think, tell a pathetic story pleasingly in rime, if he does not fall into the 
other extreme of chipping his thoughts into tiny pieces, as at the very be- 
ginning of the first of his “ Two Studies.” 

“Grandescunt aucta labore” sends a brief poem in blank verse on 
“ Wolfe at the Capture of Quebec.” Its style is too ambitious and in- 
volved at the commencement, and there is a manifest decline towards the 
close, owing possibly to haste. Poems of thirty lines will not lend them- 
selves easily to the most stately of all our measures, although 
“ Grandescunt aucta labore ” so far knows the genius of blank verse as 
to place his strong words where the emphases fall. 

“ The Loss of the Asia,” by “ Otho Scribblerus ” is written in couplets 
of four accents, and the author has divided his poem into six-lined 
stanzas. The narrative should be relieved with metaphor and simile . 
the “ mens divinior ” is essential. The lines of “ Med Scribblerus ” 
move more smoothly, as a whole, than those of some of his rivals. The 
consulting editor of the McGill College Gazette thanks Dr. Murray 
for his judgment in regard to the poems, which substantially agrees with 
his own.] 



THE CAPTURE OF THE “ROSA' OF SEVILLE. 
a.d. 1593. 

(See Harris’s “ Navigantium atqiie Itinerantium Bibliotheca London, 1705, folio ; vol. ii., p. S20.) 

Eight and twenty mariners in an open boat at sea ! 

Eight and twenty mariners with fearless hearts and free, 

With PETER for their Captain, make a goodly companie, 

That’s what we taught the Spaniards in the days of ’93. 

The Spanish Plate Fleet sailed that year in the early days of May, 

We all agreed we’d try and stop the Admiral on her way; 

So we stole one night from Tortuga in stealth and secrecie, 

But saw the sun for three long weeks set o’er an empty sea. 

No sight of sail, our water gone — our hearts were sore dismayed, 

But Peter kept our hope alive with his tales of storm and raid; 

Till at last, on Sunday even, outside Bahama’s Reef, 

We saw a sight that cheered us up in a way beyond belief— 

There was the prize for which we sighed, becalmed within the Straits, 

The stately Admiral of the Fleet. Bold Peter whispered “ Mates, 

If Fortune smiles on Justice and English hearts are bold, 

To-night our eyes shall glitter in the light of Spanish gold. 

But Spanish blades are good at fence — each man must fight as ten, 

So we’ll have the Surgeon cut two holes in this rotten tub, and then 
With our boat beneath the water, with our hands on the frigate’s chains 
We’ll try if English sailors cannot handle Spanish gains.” 

Then each man primed his pistol, and felt his sword beside, 

No need of sweeps or sailing; we were drifting with the tide. 

The surgeon got his tools out — and as we were drawing near, 

We could hear the sound of singing and a fiddle ringing clear; 

There were them silly Spaniards a-singing of their glees, 

As if an English sailor never floated on them seas. 

And all the while our boat was there in the darkness like a ghost, 

And every man so deathly still you could hear him think , almost; 

And e’er two hours were over (to me they seemed like years), 

We were safe in the frigate’s shadow and under her stern — I steers. 

Our boat is sunk, our men are up high on her carven stern, 

Which their saints made easy climbing : them Spaniards never learn, 

That saints like them may do on land, but when it comes to sea, 

They sometimes lend a helping hand to Rovers bold, like we. 

My feet were on St. Jabo’s head, under the cabin light, 

Thinks I, “ Your Saintship’s helping on a Christian work this night.” 
There, warm inside the cabin, we outside, starved and cold. 

Saw seven Papish Spaniards a-gloating o’er their gold — 

Just Peter, me and the surgeon, the other* were beneath, 

A-hanging on them blessed saints, their swords between their teeth ; 

Till Peter whispered to them, “We three up here will do 
For the Dons inside the cabin and you can take the crew 
Then man by man went past us, each holding in his breath, 

And moving silently and slow, for the slightest sound meant death. 

We crouched beneath the window, each breathing hard and fast, 

And each heart thumping like a drum, till we heard s shot at last. 

Up jumps our Spanish pirates and rushes for the door, 

But before they’d crossed the cabin, there was two upon the floor — 

One wild Ci Hurrah !” we gave them, and in answer to our call, 

The rest wheeled round and faced us with their backs against the wall. 



[February ist, 



Then against a long Toledo I was at it, tierce and carte, 

A-finding out the shortest way to reach a Spanish heart; 

When my two Dons were finished, I turned in time to see 
The surgeon falling on his face between the Cap’n and me. 

We turned him over gently, but never a word he spoke, 

’Cause a Spanish dirk was in his heart and two of his ribs was broke 
No time for words, we laid him down, each snatched a Spanish sword, 
Rushed to the main deck with the men, and there old Peter roared, 

“ Strike home, my men ! No quarter! ” And all the time the light, 
From the lanterns hung for dancing, shone peacefully and bright; 
For a long half hour and over, the struggle never stopped, 

And one by one before our men them Spanish villains dropped ; 

Till by the time the moon was up and smiling o’er the sea, 

Of living men upon that ship there was only twenty-three ; 

The other five, poor fellows, lav resting from their toils, 

A-leaving five shares extry for to go to swell our spoils. 

At the feasting and carousing we sat that night till late, 

A-drinking of the Spaniards’ wines and eating oflf their plate ; 

And until we got to England we never knew our gain, 

For the ship was running o’er with gold for the King of cruel Spain ; 
And for it to help old England seems a better use to me, 

Than to send out Spanish pirates a-scourging of the sea. 

Now here’s a health to good Queen Bess, long may she live and reign, 
Here’s to all English mariners, who sail the Spanish Main — 

And if e’er they grow faint-hearted, or shrink at touch of steel, 

Let them think how eight and twenty took the “ Rosa” of Seville. 

Philip Hay. 



THE SACRIFICE. 

(“ Cui dabit partes scelus expiandi Jupiter?”) 

Already had the horses of the sun 

Their downward pathway from the zenith run ; 

Yet ere they plunged beneath the western waves, 

A parting ray Mount Pelion’s summit laves. 

A moment there the glittering, golden light 
Flashes with fiery splendour on the sight; 

The next ’tis gone, and evening mist succeeds, 

As Phoebus from his car unyokes the steeds. 

The dying glory of the orb of day 
Lighted a lonely pilgrim on his way, 

Who, unattended, toiled up Pelion’s height, 

Leading a lamb. But now the gathering night 
Grew darker ; and the sky with clouds o’ercast 
Betokened storm, as also did the blast 
Which suddenly had risen from the deep, 

And through the woody dells begins to sweep. 

Yet all unmindful of the threatening sky 
The traveller still climbed the mountain high 
For his a sacred mission to fulfil — 

To free the people from their woes and ill. 

The men of Thessaly had sinned. In war 
More captives had they ta’en than ere before. 

Their homes were decked with spoils and jewels rare ; 
But from the gods had they witheld a share. 

No longer rose to heaven the smoke of lambs, 
Frankincense, or the sacrifice of rams. 

Empty, deserted stood the sacred shrines, 

And reverence for deity forsook their minds. 

So now great Zeus the thunderer. high in air, 

No longer strove, no longer wished to spare ; 

But direful pestilence and death he sent. 

With visage grim, into each hero’s tent. 

And wails of anguish straightway fill the air; 

The men groan and the women rend their hair, 

For, smitten down by death on every side. 

The youngest and the fairest of them died. 

Therefore Ath6us the high priest, by night 

Ascends the Mount to supplicate the king of might 

Steep the ascent, — the summit hard to gain, 

Loud roared the wind, and fiercely fell the rain. 
Amid the dark clouds of the storm-tossed skies 
The wrathv deities the priest descries, — 
Proportioned huge, swathed in the driving cloud, 
Their glance the lightning, voice, the thunder loud. 
Here stood Athene, clad in martial might; 

There brazen Mars, all eager for the fight; 

And Hermes, leader to the nether land, 

Kept ever beckoning with his gilded wand. 



i88 3 .] 



McGill university gazette. 



9 



Atheus halted, his task almost done; 

The victim near, the sacrifice begun. 

Upon an altar rude he placed the lamb, 

And with both hands, stretched heavenward, he thus began : 
“ O Zeus almighty, ether-dweller, hear, 

And to thy priest, now praying, lend thine ear. 

True we have sinned, and that too well we know. 

But, O, be merciful, and ease our woe! 

For now the firstborn throughont all the land 
Have fallen, smitten by thine angry hand. 

So shall the blood of bulls thine altars dye, 

And clouds of frankincense waft to the skv.” 
lie ceased. And for a moment’s space stood there 
In silence ; while his long and hoary hair, 

Tossed by the wind, in rippling ringlets rolled 
Down the broad robe of purple and of gold. 

Then raised on high the keen-edged, glittering knife, 
Destined to take the bleating victim’s life. 

But ere the blow, so fast descending, fell : 

Before the atoning blood begins to well, 

A fork of lightning flashed upon the blade. 

And low in death both Priest and victim laid. 



%ist of lU'io fJooIis Stcceiued. 

(From i st January, 1883.) 

Nautical Almanacs for 1884, ’85 and ’86. 

Toronto Examination Papers. — -1882. 

Locke (John), The Works of. — 3 folio volumes. 

Barclay (Robert). — An Apology for the True Christian Divinity. 

Cicero. — De Natura Deorum. — Translated by Austin Stickney. 
Encyclopaedia Perthensis. — Edinburgh, 1816 — 24 volumes. 

British Museum. — Catalogue of Batrachiae Gradimtia. 

Library, January 22nd, 1883. 

M. Williams Taylor, 

Asst. -Librarian. 



%a out* Jmfoscritiers. 

Our Subscribers will greatly oblige us by remitting 
their subscriptions as soon as possible. 

We also desire that immediate notice be given if the 
“Gazette” is not received regularly. 

Subscriptions should be remitted to the Treasurer 
P. O. Box 1843. 



THE McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE is printed and published for the 
Proprietors by the Gazette Printing Company, Montreal, at their Office, 
corner of St. Francois Xavier and Craig Streets. 



^ulucvtiscmcuts. 



CAMPBELL LANE, B.A, B.C.L, 
Advocate, Barrister, Attorney and Solicitor. 

163 ST. JAMES STREET, 

MONTREAL. 


WM. HILL, 

PROFESSOR OF 

Crinicultural Abscission 

AND 


Macmaster, Hutchinson, Knapp & 111 

ADVOCATES, 

DONALD MACMASTER, Q^C. M HUTCHINSON, B C. 

F. A. KNAPP, B.C.L. R. S. WEIR, B.C.L. 


leir, 


CRANIOLOGICAL TRIMS, 

ST. LAWRENCE HALL 
No. 1323 St. Catherine Street, 

MONTREAL. 


Surgical Instruments. 


G. W. CLARKE, 

IMPORTER OF 


_o_ 

A FULL STOCK CONSTANTLY ON HAND 


Books, Stationery, 


IMPORTED DIRECT 




AND 

FINE FANCY COODS, NOVELTIES, &c. 

JVLY STOCK OF 


FKOM THE 

LEADING MANUFACTURERS 


NEW GOODS FOR THE HOLIDAYS 

WILL BE FOUND THE FINEST IN THE DOMINION, AND THE 


OF THE WORLD. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. *m 




Christmas and New Year Cards 


Lyman Sons & Co. 


Will also be superior to anything ever imported. 

C A Ha L A N D E X A M I N E S T O C K 

G. W. "CLARKE, 



v ^ • v v • i i Ji x X V 1 i 

884 ST. PAUL ST. 238 & 240 St. James Street. 



10 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[jANUARy ISt f 



McGill College Text Books 


Win. Bfjsdal® & 0®., 

WHOLESALE AND RETAIL 

Booksellers and Stationers 


DAWSON BROTHERS 

Keep always on hand a full supply of all the TEXT BOOKS 
in use at the College- 

Also, STATIONERY IN ALE VARIETY. 

Students’ Xotc Books. Students" Pocket Ink Bottles. 

— AND — 

NOTE PAPER and ENVELOPES stamped witli tlie 
University I>ie, for the use of Students. 

FOR SALE AT 

150 “bo 165 St). James Street;. 


College Text Books 

A SPECIALTY 

SUPPLIED AT BOTTOM PRICES. 


WM. NOTMAK & SON, 

Photographers to the Queen, 

17 and 19 Bleury Street, 

MONTREAL. 

• 


Students’ Note Books— a fine assortment- 

Standard Works, 

School Books, 

Maps, Globes, &e 

£3,9 ST. JAMIES STREET, 

— AND — 

1423 ST. CA. T IT SR TJSTE STREET, 
MONTREAL. 


A STYLISH OUTFIT IS EKRtTHK ! 


B. D. Johnson Son, 


“Steppin an’ C us,” 

AND WE WILL MAKE YOU THE CENTRE OF ADMIRATION. 


DEALERS IX 


THE BOSTON ; 


BOOTS & SHOES 


CLOTHING HOUSE. 

■ ion a un i /™v % a t n o i n 


13 -A.BTD 15 


STYLISH AND LOW-PRICED 

CLOTHIERS AND GENTS’ FURNISHERS, 


St. vXose-pIb. Stareeh 


41 & 43 ST. JOSEPH ST., 

iur TT* A T 


MONTREAL. 


lYlIJIM 1 X\l!« aIj. 

WHOLESALE AND RETAIL. 


BSr BOOTS MADE TO MEASURE. “®a 



1883-] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



11 



C. HILL, 

"2Book$cllcir curb ^Maiioner. 

English and American Periodicals and Illustrated Works. 

BEST LONDON STATIONERY. 

ALL KINDS OF FANCY STATIONERY. 

Cards Engraved— Orders for England, for Town and Country, or the 
United States promptly attended to. Postage Stamps. 

GREENSHIELDS, BUSTEED & GUERIN, 

ADVOCATES, 

fBavvistcvs, Attorneys, Solicitors, &c v 

CHAMBERS: EXCHANGE BANK BUILDING, 

102 ST. FRANCOIS XAVIER STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

J. N. Greenshields, B.C.L. E. B. Busteed, B.C.L. Edmund Guerin, B.C.L. 

ASHFORD’S 
New Boot and Stationery Shop 

( One door West of his Old Stand). 

- A GOOD SUPPLY 

College Text Books, 

Medical Books, 

Students’ Note Books 

ALWAYS IN STOCK 

AND AT LOWEST POSSIBLE PRICES 

For Medical Students. 

Dissecting Cases and Scalpels by Weiss & Son, Ophthalmascopes Metrique 
De Wecker, Fine Trocar and Canula, Nitrate of Silver Holders. 
Probes, Directors, Clinical Thermometers, 

Pocket Cases, Scissors, &c., 

CHEAP POP CASH. 

C. ASHFORD, 

BOOKSELLER & STATIONER, 

678s & 680 DORCHESTER STREET, 

MONTREAL. 



(R. SliA g- SOJVS, 

IleiueUcvs, 

THE LARCEST ASSORTMENT IN THE CITY OF 

MARBLE and BRONZED CLOCKS, 

BRONZED and CHINA STATUARY, 

Sterling Silver and Electro-Plated Ware 

AND EVERY DESCRIPTION OF 

GrOODS. 

Headquarters for Out-door Games, viz: CRICKET, LAWN TENN S 
ARCHERY and FOOTBALL. 



A large assortment of Artists’ and Drawing Materials, consisting 
of WINSOR & NEWTON’S COLORS, WHATMANS DRAWING 
PAPERS, TRACING PAPER AND CLOTH. 

MATHEMATICAL INSTRUMENTS, Ac. 

J98S arid S 84 JVotre Dame Street. 




PHOTOGRAPHER 

141 — ST. PETER STREET— 141 



All the latest improvements adopted, including the INSTAN- 
TANEOUS PROCESS, &c., &c. 

COMPOSITION GROUPS executed with intelligent regard to 
established rules of art. 

figTCABINET PHOTOGRAPHS o; HERBERT SPENCER, taken 
on his recent visit to this city, for sale. Price 50 cents. 

TELEPHONE COMMUNICATION. 

MONOGRAM MED ~ 

Note Paper \ Envelopes 

PUT UP IN 'BOXES. 

NO CHARGE FOR DIES. 

A VERY ACCEPTABLE 

CHRISTMAS PRESENT. 

GEORGE BISHOP & CO., 

FASHIONABLE ENCRAVERS, 

1©9 St. James 



12 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[February ist, 1883* 



RICHELIEU HOTEL 



J. B. DUROCHER, Proprietor. 

JftCQUES CARTIER SQUARE, opp, Court House and til) Hall 

MONTREAL. 

The above Hotel is the best In the City for McGill College Dinners. 



John Henderson 8 Co., 

gatters k ^uniers 

283 NOTRE DAME ST. 




Fur Coats, Caps and Gauntlets. 

EXTRA aUALITY GOODS AT LOWEST CASH PRICES. 

THE “McGILL” RIBBON FOR SALE. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS 

THE BEST VALUE IN THE CITY. 

CHEAP STATIONERY OF ALL KINDS. 

TV. J. CL jlRKE, Bookseller, 

BEAVER HALL SQUARE. 

R. N. McCALLUM, 



GEO. BROWN & SONS, 
Merchant Tailors, 

SHIRT AND COLLAR MANUFACTURERS 

AND 

GENERAL OUTFITTERS 

USTo 21 Blenry Street 

MONTREAL. 



IMPOUTEK, 

STATIONERY, FANCY GOODS, TOYS, Ac., &c. 

130S ST. CATHERINE STREET, 

QUEEN’S HALL, BLOCK. ZNHOIL'tlC'eal- 

ESTABL1SHED 1818. 

SAVAGE & LY M A. 1ST, 

219 ST. JAMES STREET, 

HAVE IN STOCK A LARCE ASSORTMENT OF 

SILVER PLATED GOODS, 

ALSO, 

SOLID SILVER GOODS, IN CASES, 

CARRIACE CLOCKS, &c. 

And a variety of FANCY GOODS suitable for 
WEDDING PRESENTS. 



H . SAN USED It S , 

Optician, 

IMPORTER AND MANUFACTURER OF 




SPECTACLES FOR ALL SIGHTS. 

No. 185 ST. JAMES STREET 

TIOXTKF.AI.. 



Montreal : Gazette Printing Company , St. Francois Xavier Street. 



