; L ÜAiiVlÜ^Ty 
« 







- Â \ ‘ ( 



R* 1 :• a th ti L v r r .-'y ^ 



The McGill 



Fortnightly Review 

An Independent Journal of Literature and Student Opinion 



Vol. II Nos. 9-10 



PRICE 20 Cents 



Wednesday, April 27, 1927 



The Mantle of Elijah 



By Eugene Forsey 



The Academic Scene 






By Otto Klineberg 



Stories by Leo Kennedy and Hans Mann 



Bing-Shuey Lee 



OTHER CONTRIBUTORS 

A. J. M. Smith 
Philip Page 



F. R. S. 






66 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



CONTENTS 



EDITORIAL 

The Academic Scene Otto Klineberg 

4 

Field of Long Grass Michael Gard 

“the flow will return” Hans Mann 

Elijah’s Mantle Eugene Forsey 

The Canadian Authors Meet F. R. S, 

To Evening Vincent Starr 

An Old Man Leo Kennedy 

Student Government at McGill T.H. Harris 

The Shepherd’s Lament Cor y don 

The Rising Tide in China Edward Bing-Shuey Lee 

Middle Age Speaks Philip Page 

Trelawny of the Wells 

Undertaker’s Anthology A.J.M. Smith 

Poem Bliss Chapman 

BOOKS 



EDITORIAL 

W ITH this issue we bring to a close the second 
volume of this paper. While we have 
enjoyed editing, our natural dislike for 
the more strenuous forms of labour has made 
the task at times somewhat irksome, and we lay 
down our pens with a good deal of relief. Nevertheless 
we do so with a consciousness that we have to some 
extent at least fulfilled the purpose for which we 
originally came into existence as an independent 
journal. 

This was to provide an outlet for such literary 
talent as might be found about the campus and to 
afford to students a more extensive means of expressing 
their opinions on university topics than was provided 
by the correspondence columns of the Daily. The ideas 
which as editors we have sponsored have been our own, 
and often, indeed, widely divergent from those of 
most members of the undergraduate body. Because we 
have not hesitated to express minority opinions unthink- 
ing students have jumped to the conclusion that we 
are, as it were, “agin the government" from a matter 
of principle rather than for any more legitimate reason. 
Nothing could be further from the truth. Indeed, while 
we have expressed our own point of view in the 
editorial columns, we have tried to make the rest of 
the paper as representative as its contributors liked. 
Strangely enough, however, those students whose 
opinions most nearly coincide with those of the 
orthodox majority seem unable to garb their thoughts 
in printable clothing — when they can and do, we 
print their writing, however much we may disagree 
with the opinions expressed. 



A FEW weeks ago certain “college boys" waylaid 
an Arts student, Philip Matthams, as he was 
returning to his room at night. They carried him 
to a convenient spot, and with the aid of more than a 
score of others, who by pre-arrangement were in waiting, 
proceeded to cut patterns in his hair. We are told that 
the attack on Mr. Matthams, and the indignities to 
which he was subjected, were a punishment for his 
failure to stand at a certain playing of God Save the 
King . 

Whether or not Mr. Matthams’ action is considered 
to have been in the best of taste, there can be only one 
opinion about the hooliganism of those who attempted 
to correct him. While we are fairly certain they taught 
him no other lesson than that of undergraduate im- 
maturity, we are quite certain that they smirched rather 
than vindicated national honour. The time has gone 
by for that form of patriotism. Mr. Matthams is Arts 
representative on the Students’ Council and is highly 
regarded by most of the student body. If the Arts men 
were dissatisfied with their chosen representative they 
had every opportunity of expressing that opinion 
through their Undergraduate Society. The use of vio- 
lence against him was unpardonable; it gives evidence 
of a spirit which must be killed at birth. 

Non tali auxilio nec defensoribus istis 
tempus eget. 



• • • 



W E have no particular sympathy for the views of 
Mr. Scott Nearing, nevertheless we are ready 
to listen to them with an open mind. So, we 
believe, are many students at McGill. The authorities, 
however, seem to think that we are children who must 
be sheltered from “dangerous" ideas, and they did 
their best to discourage attendance at Mr. Nearing’s 
recent address in Strathcona Hall by forbidding posters 
advertising the lecture to be displayed on the campus. 

This is that shortsighted type of action that defeats 
its own end. Surely, the authorities believe the majority 
of college students to be honest, and, we trust, reason- 
ably intelligent. Why, then, not freely allow us to 
hear Mr. Nearing? If he be an evil man — we shall 
find him out soon enough. But to refuse to let his 
address be advertised only awakens our suspicions. 
Already students whose opinions have not in the past 
been other than orthodox are wondering whether the 
authorities do not wish them to hear Scott Nearing 
because it is feared that the speaker's unquestionable 
honesty and humanity will win converts to a system 
of ideas not altogether in accord with those of our 
rulers. ' 

The incident, however, is not without its amusing 
aspect. When posters calling the meeting were ordered 
to be removed, small typewritten notices were put up 
in their place, informing the students that the previous 
notices of Mr. Scott Nearing’s address in Strathcona Hall 
on such and such a date were taken down at the request 
of the authorities. All the necessary information thus 
being given, the meeting took place at the stated 
hour. 

The incident, of course, is scarcely consistent with 
the principle of freedom of speech. But we always 
prefer the humorous to the moral solution of such 
difficultés. 

* * * 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



67 



The Academic Scene 

Otto Klineberg 

T HE fight for academic freedom is still on, and 
it is only the incurable optimists among us who 
look for a speedy victory. There have been far 
too many reverses in the last few years. President 
Meiklejohn is forced to leave Amherst, in spite of the 
support of the students. Scott Nearing is prevented 
from speaking at Clark, in spite of the fine liberal 
spirit of its former president, G. Stanley Hall. Profes- 
sor Sprowls is dismissed from the University of 
Tennessee because he prescribes James Harvey Robin- 
son's The Mind in the Making in a psychology course. 
James McKeen Cattell is expelled from Columbia 
because he opposes the sending of conscripts to Europe 
to fight against their will. Six states legislate against 
the teaching of evolution in state-supported schools 
and colleges. The list might be continued indefinitely. 

Throughout the Great Republic and the Glorious 
Dominion there are still a great many institutions of 
higher learning in which it is a pretty dangerous thing 
for an instructor to be openly in the minority. Usual- 
ly he keeps quiet, until perhaps the cause which he 
espouses becomes respectable. He knows, or fears 
(which is just as bad) that his utterances on contro- 
versial topics may cost him his promotion, if not his 
job. His silence costs him his intellectual integrity, 
which is a fairly high price to pay, even for an 
academic position. 

This condition is by no means universal, and there 
are splendid instances to the contrary. A statement like 
that made by Glenn Frank about a month ago, that 
as long as he was President of the University of 
Wisconsin there would not be the slightest interference 
with the freedom of expression of a single member of 
his staff, will do much to hearten the liberals among 
us. At many of the great universities instructors may 
say what they please on most topics without fear of 
dismissal, though perhaps not altogether without 
fear of permanently alienating the affections of the 
administration. At other places the fear is more acute 
and more real. That fear is bound to exert a pernicious 
influence. It interferes with that independence of out- 
look which must characterize the true scientist and the 
true teacher. 

The same applies, with some variations, to the 
student. Interestingly enough the student has been left 
out of most discussions of academic freedom. There 
has seemed to be something like a general agreement 
that it mattered very little whether the student could 
say what he pleased, about intellectual as well as ad- 
ministrative matters; whether there were many or few 
restrictions on his free speech. Nothing could be further 
from the truth, as many of the students themselves 
are beginning to realize. It is a remarkably significant 
sign of the times that everywhere militant minorities 
among tfte students are insisting upon their right to 
the possession of unorthodox opinions, and are 
devising means for their expression. Labour Clubs and 
Fortnightly Reviews, Youth Movements and Student 
Conventions, with similar platforms under varying 
names in many colleges, testify to a vigorous and. we 
may hope, a growing tendency. 

Less than two years ago the President of an im- 
portant mid-western University said to the Freshmen, 
“The best thing to do is to do what you are told, . . 



Take the advice and direction of those who know 
more about things than you do. . . For an individual 
coming to the University and saying “I want to do 
what I want to do“ means starting endless trouble 
for himself and everyone else. . . The best thing to do 
is to fall into the line of University organization as 
soon as you can." That man (he is Emeritus now) 
had no business in a university. Telling students to 
“fall into line“ means telling them not to be students. 
If there is anything a student must have before he can 
be worthy of the name, it is a free and independent 
point of view. 

You will tell me that freedom is impossible; 
particularly if you have drunk at the fountains of the 
newer psychology you will insist that independence is 
a snare and a delusion. You will point out how our 
early training shapes our later progress; how we get 
our bogeys in the nursery and our bugbears at our 
mother's knee; how our “standing in the community," 
our racial, religious and social connections capriciously 
determine the prejudices which we later defend under 
the firm but baseless conviction that we have espoused 
them freely, and with reason. This is partly true, but 
wholly irrelevant. The fact that we cannot entirely 
escape one kind of bondage does not mean that we 
should placidly and contentedly submit to another. It 
does not mean that we must always think as we are 
told, that we must avoid unpopular causes as if they 
were the plague, that we must always fall in line with 
the majority. 

As matters stand now, a student must have unusual 
courage to be independent. It is by no means rare in 
the history of American colleges for one who is too out- 
spoken to feel the weight of the administrative hand 
upon his shoulder. So it happens that the student who 
has ideas of his own on social, economic, religious, 
even philosophical questions, will hesitate to express 
them for fear of the consequences. If he is anxious to 
get good grades or scholarships or other honours he 
will hesitate all the more. The consequences may Be 
real or imaginary, but they shut him up just the same. 
More rarely he is worried not so much over the possible 
displeasure of the faculty, as over that of his family or 
his group, who will regard him as a traitor if he dares 
to question their presuppositions. Whatever the cause, 
the effect is equally fatal; he develops habits of acqui- 
escence and intellectual servility that may spoil him 
forever as a student. 

It cannot be repeated too often that the real student 
must stand on his own intellectual legs. A wise old 
Harvard professor once told the members of his 
philosophy class that whenever they read a book or 
listened to a lecture they should assume that the man 
was talking nonsense until he proved the contrary. 
This may seem to be going a bit far; it obviously does 
not apply in many fields; but certainly such an 
attitude is a thousand times to be preferred to its op- 
posite. It is not merely the right, but the duty of the 
student to question. He must turn an enquiring scep- 
ticism upon every topic which comes within his 
compass. The opinions he holds are important, cer- 
tainly, but more important is the manner in which 
,he came by them. He must be like the Englishman who 
would rather go to Hell of his own free will than to 
Heaven by predestination. Substituting new gods for 
old will not do; much as he may prefer H. L. Menc- 
ken to William Jennings Bryan, he must avoid the 



68 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



blind worship of either. Both must equally submit to 
the test of his own logic and his own experience. 

Much curiosity may be a social error, but in the 
student it is a cardinal virtue. That is why the true 
student, whatever his subject may be, will be less 
interested in the applications of his facts than in the 
facts themselves. Knowledge will be its own end. He 
may not go so far as the famous British scientist who 
said that if he thought his investigations would be of 
the slightest use to anybody he would give them up, 
but he must go far enough to regard such uses as inci- 
dental. Does philosophy make him more efficient? 
Who knows? Does a knowledge of history make him 
a good citizen? Who cares? The record of what men 
have said and done is fascinating enough to require no 
outside warrant. The student simply wants to know, 
and his want does not diminish as the years go by. 
Always he prays with the poet, “God, keep me still 
unsatisfied." 

As I see it, then, this is what a student is made of, — 
an insatiable curiosity about intellectual things, and an 
independent point of view. Does he need brains? It 
would be fine if he could have some, but he needs them 
no more and no less than do the business man or the 
practitioner; the universities have no monopoly on 
gray matter. A sense of humour? Certainly, but that 
is just as important outside, as within the academic con- 
fines. Should he be a good citizen? Perish the thought 
if you mean by that what is usually meant, that he 
must accept uncritically the standards of his commu- 
nity, make respectable speeches only, and walk in the 
footsteps of the majority. No, I think I shall leave 
that as the irreducible minimum, — intellectual 
curiosity and an unfettered mind. 

Even at that there are comparatively few students 
at any university. If I could persuade that precise and 
patient observer, the Man from Mars, to survey the 
academic scene in the dispassionate and unprejudiced 
manner for which he is justly famous, he would be 
hard put to it to see more than the struggle for marks 
and degrees, for honours and promotions, interspers- 
ed with dancing and football, and the incidental ac- 
quiring of information. Here and there he would see 
a real student. No university has very many; every 
university has a few. They are the custodians of the 
true college spirit. 

♦ * * 

In Samoa the great social sin is “talking above one's 
age." If a child of eight talks like a child of ten, or if 
a young man talks like an old chief, people say to him, 
"Keep still. You are talking above your age." Fortu- 
ately for me, this is not Samoa, so I can take it upon 
myself to define and describe academic affairs with 
an authority which properly belongs to older and 
more experienced men. I prefer not to wait until I am 
older and more experienced myself, because by that 
time I too may have joined the ranks of the respect- 
able majority which believes that students should be 
harmless and conservative and think as they are told. 
In the meantime lean at least register my present 
conviction that complete freedom of expression for 
both students and instructors is something to which 
more than theoretical assent is needed, and that a 
university is primarily a place for inquiring and 
independent youths engaged in the great adventure of 
Learning. 



Field of Long Grass 

SHE walks in the field of long grass 
in the evening 

and the delicate little lover-hands 

lean forward a little to touch her 
with the gesture of shyest caress 

Light is like the waving of the long grass 
Light is the faint to and fro 
of her dress 

Light rests for a while in her bosom 

When it is all gone 
from her bosom's hollow and 
out of the field of long grass 
6he walks in the dark 
by the edge of the fallow land 

Then she begins to walk in my heart 
then she walks in me 
swaying in my veins 

My wrists 

are a field of long grass 
a little wind is kissing 

Michael Gard 



“the flow will return ” 

— Walt Whitman 

Hans Mann 

S TEWART felt the button on the shoulder of his 
bathing suit tear off and heard it roll along the 
floor into a dark corner of the boathouse. He tied 
the shoulder straps of his bathing suit together, put 
his towel across his arm, and moved out to the wharf 
to wait for the girls. 

A few stars were out, but there was no moon, so he 
left the boathouse light on as a guide for their return. 

He wished that Cynthia had not been going with 
them. When Gloria had suggested a midnight swim 
he had felt a tingling excitement at the idea of going 
out into the dark lake with her. Together under such 
circumstances they might have fallen into an intimacy 
such as he could not hope to gain during her week-end 
visit at Cynthia's if he was only to see her at tea-time 
and at cards in the evening. 

He could hear the girls' voices as they came down 
the path: Cynthia was in front, her towel drawn across 
her shoulders; Gloria wore a beach robe wrapped tight- 
ly around her. 

Cynthia sat in the bow of the dinghy. Stewart 
rowed, bracing his feet against the stern under Gloria. 
His legs touched her beach robe and once he felt his 
bare leg rub against hers. 

He saw her looking at his thighs and hips and not- 
iced that she glanced aside when she saw him watching 
her. He glanced down at the thick black hairs of his 
legs, thinking of a girl he had known the year before 



The McCill Fortnightly Review 



69 



who shaved her legs when she was going to wear 
flesh colored stockings. One night she cut her leg, us- 
ing her father’s straight edge razor, and could not go 
out with him. 

Cynthia tied the dinghy’s painter to the raft and 
jumped out. By the time Stewart was on the raft she 
had gone off the spring-board. 

He held the dinghy close to the raft, waiting for 
Gloria to get out. Her foot sent the dinghy out as she 
stepped to the raft, so he let the dinghy go and caught 
Gloria round the waist. Their weight, as they balanc- 
ed against each other, sank the side of the raft. 

'Pig" said Gloria. Her face was close to his and 
he felt a tiny bead of moisture strike his cheek. "You’re 
going in," Gloria said pushing him into the water. 

Coming up. Stewart cursed and threatened Gloria. 
When he mounted the raft to catch her she ran up the 
spring-board and dove into the lake. Twisting her 
body on to the raft and throwing one bare leg out of 
the water, she appealed to him to let her up. 

"Until you get your wind," he said; "I’ll have to 
throw you in. Don’t you perceive the subtlety of the 
compliment?" 

"Last dive!" announced Cynthia. 

Gloria stood up beside Stewart. She stepped quickly 
behind him as he grasped her shoulders, so that he 
was on the edge of the raft. 

"I fooled you!" Gloria said, leaning far back with- 
out trying to get free from his arms. "I don’t care for 
subtle compliments." 

"If the obvious " he laughed and tried to 

force her mouth close to him. 

"Damn you, you’ve hurt me." 

"You do like the obvious!" he said scornfully. 

Gloria hit him across the mouth and, when he held 
her arms, pushed him off the raft. As they fell into 
the water her shoulder struck him between the eyes 
and his mouth opened with a gasp. 

Stewart let go of her hands as they fell, but going 
down he held her thighs. Her skin felt cold and 
smooth like greased parchment. Faint light was above 
and then farther down there was no light. 

He felt the loose mud on the bottom stirring between 
his toes. He loosened his clasp around Gloria and 
saw her legs glitter like tarnished silver as she went up 
into the light. 

Going up he felt a dull pain in his stomach where 
her knee had struck him He thought that he 

knew now what it was like to be drowned. He could 
not get his breath. He was coughing, coughing. If he 
had swallowed his tongue neither of the girls would 
know what to do to save him. He would die before 
they could get him to shore. 

Cynthia was calling his name, "Stewart, what’s 
the matter, Stewart?" 

She helped him on to the raft and thumped his 
back. Gloria sat on the spring-board with a scared 
look on her face. 

He began to take breath again. That hurt him and 
he felt weak. Cynthia supported him, one arm around 
his shoulders. He had never noticed before that she 
was as tall as he was. 

When he was breathing easily he began to laugh. 
That made him cough, but he went on laughing and 
telling Cynthia what an interesting sensation he had 
experienced. 



"I think I’ll feel like that when I’m old," said 
Stewart, "the things I’ve always been interested in 
seemed petty compared to a sensation like that." 

Going in, his shivering shook the dinghy. He row- 
ed hard in order to get warm and did not stop to fix 
the shoulder straps of his bathing suit when they 
came untied. 

Chattering with the cold, Cynthia put on her shoes 
and went up to dress. Stewart saw Gloria looking at 
his exposed nipple. He thought that she wanted to stay 
down at the boathouse to talk to him. Drying him- 
self, he drew his bathing suit clear off to the waist 
and watched her follow Cynthia to the house. 

Shivering, Stewart put on his clothes, turned the 
boathouse into darkness, and went up past Cynthia’s 
house to the road. Running homewards he smelt the 
faint scent of his damp hair, and, coughing and pant- 
ing, felt the warmth returning to his body, the sweat 
coming out under his arms and between his shoulders; 
and he remembered Gloria’s body as she stood on the 
raft outlined in the night light. 



Elijah *s Mantle 

Eugene Forsey 

O UITE the most delightful of Lord Frederick 
Hamilton’s Russian reminiscences is his story of 
the Orthodox priest, who, as he walked down the 
aisle swinging the censer and chanting out some magnif- 
icent phrase from the Slavonic liturgy, overheard the 
homely Scot's comment; "If it does ye nae good, it’ll 
dae ye nae harm." That is my own feeling about the 
Conservative National Convention. Three months ago 
I should have described it, unhesitatingly, as one of the 
worst results of the last general election. But since 
then, Mr. Guthrie has proved himself a national disas- 
ter. and his recent speeches would justify any expedient 
which offered a chance of getting rid of him. 

Yet, I cannot help wondering how a Convention is 
going to mend matters. Conventions are notoriously 
futile bodies, and the Conservative Party hitherto has 
fought shy of them. Not so its opponents. Twice, in 
moments of severe depression, they have sought in- 
spiration according to the best American models, and 
each time victory has followed. "Post hoc, ergo 
propter hoc" — hence the demand for a Conservative 
Convention. A more violent break with the traditions 
of the party could scarcely be imagined, and there is 
added piquancy in the fact that its chief advocates are 
the pillars of orthodoxy, the "Conservatives of the 
old school". 

Actually, of course, the argument drawn from 
Liberal example is ridiculous. The decisive factors in 
1896 were not the official programme, but the 
personality of Sir Wilfrid Laurier — whose leadership 
was established before the Convention of 1893 — , the 
violent quarrels in the Conservative Government, the 
deliberate exploitation of social and religious passions, 
and, above all, the swing of the pendulum after 
eighteen years of Conservative rule. The extent of the 
trend towards Free Trade may be gauged from the very 
modest tariff reductions known to history as "the 
Great Betrayal of ’96." 

Even more remote is the connection between the 



70 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



Convention of 1919 and the victory of 1921. Un- 
doubtedly the greatest single influence for Liberalism 
was war-weariness. The official programme was 
indeed paraded in the West, but the West several times 
bitten, had at last grown shy, and returned its own 
candidates. The fears of Ontario were calmed by 
assurances that the programme was only a ‘‘chart and 
compass," to be used by and with the advice and con- 
sent of certain discreet persons from a Protectionist 
stronghold. It was understood that Conservative 
enemies of Mr. Meighen were paying the piper and 
would call the tune. Quebec for the most part was not 
troubled by abstruse economic arguments. Conscrip- 
tion and the Laurier legend were quite enough for her. 
Thus was "responsible" government re-established. 

But if the Convention of 1919 had little or no 
effect on Liberal policy, and contributed virtually 
nothing to Liberal success in 1921, in another aspect 
it has moulded the fate of Canada ever since. For, al- 
most by accident, (if rumour is to be believed,) it gave 
us Mr. King, surely one of the most amazing figures 
in Canadian political history. Fortune has played 
into his hands more than once. Treachery and stupid- 
ity in the Tory camp have been his most powerful 
allies. Yet when every deduction has been made, the 
most ardent Conservative must acknowledge Mr. 
King’s genius for platform harangues, his superlative 
skill as a tactician, his complete mastery of the art of 
living on nothing a year. 

7 o give him a foeman worthy of his steel will be 
the Convention’s first task, and if I may venture to 
prophesy, no easy one. Twice last Session, Mr. 
Meighen’s unavoidable absence threw the Conserv- 
ative Front Bench on its own resources, and never did 
political leaders cut such a sorry figure. Mr. Bennett's 
speech on the budget was a fine specimen of partisan 
trumpeting, but as serious criticism it was pathetic. In 
July even Mr. Bennett was gone, and the other 
paladins collapsed utterly. With the notable exceptions 
of Dr. Manion and Mr. Cahan, they were thoroughly 
cowed by Mr. King’s onslaughts, and his specious 
arguments rode roughshod even over the two fighting 
Irishmen. 

Comment is superfluous. Since 1896, loyalty to its 
leaders has never been conspicuous among the virtues 
of Canadian Conservatism. "The spirit of the nest of 
traitors’ lives still;" and just now it is the fashion to 
talk glibly of the failure of Mr. Meighen’s leadership. 
His are the incredible blunders of Doucet and Nichol- 
son. and the unknown hero who would take the 
franchise from the immigrant. His are the tactics which 
split Quebec Conservatives in 1925 and paralysed them 
last autumn. Calumny and misrepresentation are the 
commonplaces of public life: but to few statesmen 
have they been dealt out with so generous a hand as 
to Arthur Meighen. It was a strange irony by which 
the most Nationalistic of Conservative leaders was 
persecuted for his Imperialism; but stranger yet were 
the sources of that persecution. In Quebec he was held 
up to execration by the Liberals for his share in Con- 
scription and the War Times Elections Act, while the 
partners of his "crimes" were high in the counsels of 
Liberalism itself. This was perhaps pardonable op- 
portunism; but there can be no such justification for 
the foes of his own household, the little group of jin- 
goes who had strenuously supported the hated war 
measures, f and who now joined unblushingly. 
enthusiastically, in the hue and cry against their 



author. The truth is that with a very small but noisy 
section of Conservatives Mr. Meighen was hated for his 
virtues, and even his errors availed him nothing. The 
creator of the National Railways could not be for- 
given, though his was the strong arm which crushed 
the Winnipeg strike. 

As Prime Minister, he never enjoyed real power. 
Only in one sphere. — Imperial and foreign affairs— 
did he leave a permanent impression, by his share in 
the cancellation of the Anglo-Japanese Alliance and 
the calling of the Washington Conference on the 
limitation of armaments. But "not on the vulgar mass 
called work shall sentence pass." History will judge 
him for what he was: the unquestioned master of the 
House of Commons; the leader sans peur et sans repro- 
che, who, almost alone among Canadian Prime 
Ministers, never bowed his knee in the house of 
Rimmon; the one first class mind in Canadian politics, 

This, however, is not "what the public wants." 
Perhaps not; but the party managers have yet to show 
that they have anyone comparable to Mr. Meighen, 
not merely in intellect, but in his command of public 
confidence. Mr. Bennett has courage and ability; he 
is "a bonny fechter;" and he is not the man to accept 
dictation. But for that very reason he has little chance 
of the leadership. The "Die-Hards" — whom the cap 
fits may put it on — may control barely half-a-dozen 
seats in Parliament. But they have an infinite capacity 
for making a nuisance of themselves — a power which 
no Convention can ignore. Once before they asked for 
a tool and were given a leader. They will see to it that 
there are no more mistakes of that kind. 

After Mr. Bennett, the ablest and most experienced 
members on the Conservative side are probably Mr. 
Guthrie and Mr. Cahan. Mr. Guthrie’s career as Acting 
Leader has effectively disposed of him: and Mr. Cahan. 
even if physically equal to the task, played too 
equivocal a part in the transactions of October 1925 
to be acceptable in Ontario and the West. That at least 
is the general impression. 

Within the House of Commons there is apparently 
no salvation, and already it seems likely that the 
Convention's choice will fall on Mr. Howard 
Ferguson. From a partisan viewpoint, he is probably 
the best available candidate. Almost the only 

prominent Conservative who had no part in Conscrip- 
tion, he has in the last few years added to that advan- 
tage by his support of the bonne entente. He has given 
signs of a change of heart on the bilingual schools 
question ; and on several great national issues, has 
avowedly ranged himself beside M. Taschereau. More- 
over, as recent events prove, he is a shrewd party 
strategist, who never allows himself to be unduly 
hampered by political principle. To such, much is 
forgiven. 

Even the adroit Mr. Ferguson, however, may well 
flinch before the difficulties which confront his party. 
The Conservative Elisha, whoever he may be is in 
for an uncomfortable time of it. In the first place, he 
can scarcely avoid burning his fingers on the question 
of Imperial relations. When the Imperial Conference 
issued its famous report, most Canadians gave a sigh 
of relief. This new definition of an old status it would 
at least, we hoped, calm the fears of French Canada, 
and make Mr. King less prone to hear "ancestral voices, 
prophesying war. At last the futile controversies over 
status could be decently buried and the country 
could get on with its work. 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



71 



For a time, all went well. Mr. Guthrie’s first com- 
ments, though perhaps unwise, were not seriously 
disquieting; and we felt confident that, of all men, the 
successor of Sir John Macdonald could be trusted to 
deal faithfully with Mr. Bruce's ill-mannered attempt 
to interfere in our national affairs. What was our 
astonishment when, on January 7th. at Toronto, Mr. 
Guthrie “gave his whole support” to Mr. Bruce’s 
contention tjiat equality of status involves equality 
of responsibilities and burdens. The Dominions, Mr. 
Guthrie urged, must assume full responsibilities to the 
British Empire or be relegated to a status of inferiority. 
During recent years, Canada had done nothing to- 
wards creating a Navy, and what little it had done 
(previously) had been allowed to degenerate. He 
doubted whether there could be equal status in the 
Empire. There must be some directing force within 
the Empire, some super-authority to control the des- 
tinies of the various parts, and Canada must look in 
the future, as in the past, to the Motherland as the 
chief inspiration of the race, Great Britain could still 
declare war, and that involved Canada at the moment 
the declaration was made or, if it did not, we would 
be relegated to a position of absolute nullity. Again, 
in Montreal, on January 31st. Mr. Guthrie argued 
that Canada could not have equality of status with 
Great Britain unless she had equality of burdens and 
responsibilities, particularly in the matter of Empire 
defence. He asked if it was right that Canada should 
stand idly by at a time like this, when British troop- 
ships were at sea on their way to China. He could not 
think so, because he believed that the Dominion must 
do something for its own defence and the defence of 
the Empire. 

“Arm, arm! it is the cannon’s opening roar!’’ This, 
be it noted, while the whole Empire is still at peace 
with China. Mr. Guthrie in his martial zeal must 
needs outdo the British Government itself. Fortunately 
his speeches are not likely to be read in Canton. If they 
were, I fancy Sir Austen Chamberlain would not 
thank him for flinging matches into the Chinese 
powder magazine. How many Canadians will thank 
him for suggesting that we should “pour out the red, 
rich wine of youth” to stifle the just demands of the 
Chinese people? 

But Mr. Guthrie is not concerned with internation- 
al morality. For him, the fiat of Westminster is more 
than sufficient. Glasgow may question it, but Ottawa 
dare not. Our forefathers when they crossed the seas, 
left their consciences in the keeping of the British 
Government. Actually of course Canada is perfectly 
free, and has been for years. Mr. Guthrie is simply 
using an obsolete legal theory to conjure up the bogeys 
of the extreme Nationalists. 

From the position thus created, he sees but one way 
of escape, and that a doubtful one: the assumption of 
“equal burdens’’ for defence. Just what would that 
involve? According to “United Empire” for January 
1927. Great Britain pays for defence 51/1 per capita. 
Australia 27/2. New Zealand 12/11, Canada 5/10. 
South Africa 2/6. On a basis of equality, therefore, the 
average payment per capita would be 19/11. In 
other words, Canada would be invited to raise an extra 
$30,000,000 a year. Against whom? Japan? China? 
Russia? Germany? France? We have no quarrel with 
any of these, and if we had. experts tell us we are 
immune from naval attack. 1 o what profit this vast 
additional outlay? And where does Mr. Guthrie prop- 



ose to get the money? At his next meeting, when the 
cheers have subsided, let him suggest a $30,000,000 
increase in the income tax, and see what happens. 

Canning “called in the New World to redress the 
balance of the Old.” Mr. Guthrie would reverse the proc- 
ess, dragging Canada into the very nightmare from which 
Europe is trying to escape. How long with it take 
him to realize that armaments mean war, as night 
follows day, and that another war means the practical 
extinction of the human race? ”Ships for Shanghai” 
may be a fine slogan amid the plaudits of the faithful 
at Toronto, it may commend itself to certain journal- 
istic oracles in Montreal. But it is not the policy for 
French Canada, for the youth of Canada, for Cana- 
dian Labour. It is magnificent, but is is not states- 
manship. It is not even Imperialism in any but the 
worst sense. For the Empire to which we owe 
allegiance is something better than a compulsory 
military alliance; it is a commonwealth of free nations, 
leagued together for peace. 

The Industrious Apprentice has indeed done a great 
work. He has confirmed the worst fears of Quebec. 
He has deepened and widened the gulf between the two 
great races. He has destroyed in ten minutes the patient 
endeavour of five years. One of the most widespread 
criticisms of Mr. Meighen’s Hamilton speech was that 
it was made without consulting his lieutenants. Did 
Mr. Guthrie consult his lieutenants? Did he take 
counsel with his late colleague M. Patenaude or the other 
“loyal Quebeckers on guard?” If not, did he speak for 
the Conservative Party or for himself alone? 

These arc questions which the Convention must 
answer, and in no uncertain terms. Had Mr. Guthrie 
shown the most elementary caution, his successor 
might have escaped with polite evasions. But the 
Acting Leader chose to exploit the Chinese crisis. He 
preferred expediency to political principle, and as he 
deserved, expediency has betrayed him. French Canada 
now will demand from the Conservatives an Imperial 
policy set down in black and white, signed, sealed, and 
delivered by authorities whose word cannot be ques- 
tioned. Remembering the. Hamilton speech, its 
demands are not likely to be modest, and then what 
will Ontario say? 

The usual gay response to these forebodings is that 
“the grand old Conservative Party must look to the 
West.” Quebec is given up as a bad job. What a 
confession for the party of Sir Georges Etienne Cartier! 
Only six months ago it polled rather more than a 
third of the French-Canadian vote. Now some of its 
members actually propose to quit the field, to hand 
over to their opponents as a free gift more than one 
quarter of the people of Canada. No more pusillanim- 
ous surrender, none half so disastrous to the nation, 
disgraces the history of Canadian politics. For the rest 
of Canada, almost inevitably, would be urged to vote 
for the distinctively English party, and we should be 
plunged into a bitter racial struggle. Le parti avant le 
pays! Truly a noble sacrifice on the altar of national 
unity! Where are the old philippics against sectiona- 
lism? Where is the lion-hearted courage of Macdonald 
and Tupper? 

I do not for a moment deny the wisdom of “look- 
ing to the West.” Quebec has been a severe disappoint- 
ment to the Conservative Party, not merely in the last 
six years, but, as Mr. Monty pointed out, in almost 
every election since 1887. Only the short-lived 
Nationalist alliance of 1911 enabled Sir Robert Borden 



72 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



to challenge the Liberal supremacy; and the circum- 
stances of that year are not likely to be repeated. Nor 
can Quebec Liberals be detached from their party on 
the issue of Protection. It is high time to give up 
following that will-o-the-wisp. As one critic has 
remarked: 44 What Liberalism stands for and what 
Liberalism sits for are two very different things/' 
Liberal politicians may cherish a good many conflict- 
ing views on national affairs; but one fixed principle 
they share in common; “They will never desert Mr. 
Micawber." 

Have your Western offensive by all means. But why 
go out of your way to lose votes in Quebec? Jingoism 
may be popular on the Prairies, though for my 
part I doubt it. But the real issues there are economic, 
and if the Conservative Party means to catch Western 
votes it will have to bait its hook with something 
better than gun-powder. 

What shall it be? That is the second major problem 
which the Convention must solve. The most obvious 
suggestion, and the silliest, is to throw overboard the 
historic National Policy. Admittedly, Canadian Pro- 
tection has often been no more than a sordid scramble 
for individual gain at the expense of the nation. 
Admittedly, too, it had a dubious beginning, There 
is a Gilbertian touch in the story of Sir Charles 
Tupper, uncertain what the morrow would bring 
forth, going up to the budget debate of 1876 with 
two speeches in his pocket, one Protectionist, the other 
Free Trade. It is even whispered that Sir John Mac- 
donald himself was to the end of his days a theoretical 
Free Trader. This, however, is not the whole story, 
and if it were, the appeal to history would not settle 
the question. For some of us at least, Protection is not 
a partisan expedient or an instrument of personal gain, 
but a fundamental political principle. Rightly or 
wrongly we believe that if Canada is to survive as a 
free nation, she must keep control of her economic life. 
That is why the National Policy is not for sale. 

This declaration, however, does not for a moment 
shut the door against tariff reductions. It simply lays 
down the principle on which increases or decreases 
must proceed. Even from a Protectionist point of view, 
it may well be that all our customs duties are too high. 
That is a question of fact, not theory; and until the 
creation of the Tariff Board it was often very difficult 
to say whether a particular duty was or was not ex- 
cessive. The automobile tariff is a case in point. After 
all the hysterics of last Session, the industry finds 
itself thriving. 

The whole fiscal question suffers from an astonish- 
ing lack of political realism. For the orthodox Con- 
servative, the tariff is an obsession, higher duties a 
political and economic patent medicine. If a business 
fails, he never dreams of asking whether it was ill 
managed or improperly financed. The whole trouble, 
as he sees it is the fault of the Government. The tariff 
wasn’t high enough. He cherishes the fantastic theory 
that Protection is responsible for American greatness, 
and equally that whatever is good for the United 
States is ipso facto good for Canada. Differences in 
soil, climate, and resources; the relative importance of 
foreign trade to each of the two countries; these are 
brushed aside with a Podsnappian gesture. Every year 
we listen wearily to the same meaningless claptrap 
about the balance of trade, “now up, now down, like 
bokket in a welle." For the Liberals make use of it 
quite as often, with as great effect, and as little reason, 



as the Conservatives. Neither side has grasped what 
Nicholas Flood Davin told them forty years ago, that 
the 4 ‘balance of trade," in itself, never had the remotest 
value as a guide to fiscal policy. Neither side under- 
stands the even more elementary principle that a duty 
is either protective or merely revenue producing. All 
this gabble about "high Protection" and “low Proctec- 
tion." moderate Protection" and “compromise for the 
sake of national unity," is the sheerest nonsense. If a 
certain industry really needs, let us say, a 30% tariff 
28% is not “moderate Protection" but no protection 
at all, and 35% is not “high Protection" but legalized 
robbery. Whether an industry that needs 30% is 
worth supporting is another question, and one on 
which no general verdict is possible. 

The great need is accurate information, such as we 
hope the Tariff Board will give us, and a Government 
strong enough to enforce the policy which that infor- 
mation dictates. Given those conditions, and the generous 
aid which she has a right to expect in solving her own 
peculiar difficulties, I believe Western Canada is 
perfectly ready to afford Protection to Eastern indus- 
tries. It is for the Conservative Party to show that it 
is not the political mouthpiece of the Canadian Manu- 
facturers’ Association, and that it is not afraid to 
read the Riot Act to industry when occasion demands. 
In the past, at least one large Canadian business has 
used Protection as a cloak for wildcat finance — 
62 1 /£%of its share capital is water-; gross extravagance, 
inefficient management, and persistent mishandling of 
its labour force. Now, in difficulties, it blames all its 
misfortunes on the inadequacy of the tariff! That it 
has suffered from circumstances Beyond its own con- 
trol I fully admit: that it has a case for temporary aid. 
I do not question. But that aid should be given only 
for a limited period, and on this distinct understand- 
ing, that it is to be used to bring about financial re- 
organization, modernized equipment, and decent 
labour conditions; and that if it is used for any other 
purpose it will be withdrawn. Protection is properly 
a barrier against dumping, and against the product of 
sweated labour. But, the Government cannot undertake 
to act as a perpetual crutch to the halt and lame, and 
Protection must not be imposed in the interests of 
Canadian employers of sweated labour. 

If the Canadian workman is to reap the full benefits 
of the National Policy it will only be through strong 
and active Trade Union organization. The Conserv- 
ative Party boasts that it is the workman’s friend. Is 
it prepared to give the Labour Movement definite en- 
couragement? Will it as a beginning repeal the “vicious 
^legislation" which followed the Winnipeg strike? By 
^the same token, is it prepared to repudiate the disas- 
trous and totally unprotective policy of the “open 
^door" in immigration. Mr. Meighen, here and else- 
where a political realist, never had any truck or trade 
with that doctrine. He realized that it is no use bring- 
ing people into a country unless you can offer them 
reasonable chance of a livelihood. If that security is 
lacking, wholesale immigration merely adds to the un- 
employed. or, alternatively, the immigrant under- 
sells the native Canadian workmen and drives them 
over the Border. The “open door" is the open sieve. 

I have spoken of “generous aid to Western Canada." 
What does that mean? Rural credits, the encouragement 
of co-operative marketing; railway freight subsidies — 
these the whole Conservative Party is probably ready 
to concede. Most of its members are equally ready to 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



73 



stand by the National Railways. But the West, or 
some of it, asks more, and whether the unhappy 
Convention, when it comes to the Hudson Bay Rail- 
way and the St. Lawrence deep waterways proposal, 
will succeed in steering between the Scylla of Winnipeg 
and the Charybdis of Montreal, remains to be seen. 

One thing is certain. If Conservatism is to reestablish 
itself, it will not be by a policy of timid compromises. 
It must carry the war into Africa. One weapon at least 
lies ready to its hand. For the Canadian people seem 
to have a peculiar fondness for “Constitutional” issues, 
ever the flimsiest of shams, “all made out of the 
carver's brain.” They might be invited to exercise their 
zeal for once, on a real Constitutional question: the 
reform of Parliamentary representation. Does the 
country realize the extent of our system of “rotten 
boroughs,” or more strictly, rotten counties? Agricult- 
ure is our basic industry; the farmer is usually an 
independent thinker, by contrast with the newspaper- 
ridden Babbitt of the towns. Doubtless, the rural dis- 
tricts deserve some special consideration in the allot- 
ment of seats in Parliament. But surely there can be 
no defence for the grossly unequal electoral districts 
maintained, in the teeth of Conservative protests, by 
the last redistribution. There is something wrong 
with a system which disfranchises over 300,000 Ca- 
nadian electors; which instals in power, with 129 sup- 
porters, a Government whose popular vote was slightly 
less than that represented by the 91 Conservatives. 
Perhaps the most striking illustration it the 
situation in the Prairie Provinces. In the election 
of 1926, the Conservatives actuallly increased their 
popular vote there by 28,000. They polled some 2,000 
more than the Liberals, but elected only one Conserv- 
ative as against 23 Liberals. In Alberta, the Conserva- 
tive and U. F. A. popular votes were almost equal, 
but the U. F. A. returned 1 1 members as against one 
Conservative. This is of course balanced to some extent 
by the sweeping Conservative victories in British 
Columbia and Nova Scotia; but when every allowance 
has been made, the result is anything but satisfactory 
from the democratic standpoint. “Rep. by pop.,” 
“responsible government,” and other clear Grit battle 
cries of the brave days of old, seem now to be regarded 
in the same light as that famous fiscal policy of which 
a great Liberal newspaper said: “Platforms are made 
to get in on/* 

I doubt very much, however, whether the Con- 
vention will touch this problem. Proportional Repre- 
sentation, despite the sarcastic gibes of the Manitoba 
Free Press,” is out of the question. “More votes for 
the cities” is not the way to conciliate the Western 
farmer, and if ever a Canadian Labour Party develops, 
redistribution on these lines might prove a boomerang 
to its Tory authors. • 

Does the Conservative Party contain the elements 
of a broad, vigourous policy of social reconstruction, or 
is it politically bankrup? That is the question which 
the Convention will answer. Even if it succeeds for the 
moment, the issue must long remain in doubt. The 
rebuilding of this shattered party, robbed of the one 
leader who seemed to have the remotest touch with 
modern thought, calls for patience, loyalty, and a 
sense of political realities, — all three unhappily very 
rare, and rarest of all among these very people. It will 
be the task of many years. At every apparent failure, 
the new leader will hear a shout of “Off with his head” 
and before the day of power returns, if it ever returns. 



several of Mr. Meighen’s successors may have followed 
him into exile. 



The Canadian Authors Meet 

EXPANSIVE puppets percolate self-unction 
Beneath a portrait of the Prince of Wales. 

Miss Crotchet’s muse has somehow failed to function 
Yet she’s a poetess. Beaming, she sails 

From group to chattering group, with such a dear 
Victorian saintliness, as is her fashion. 

Greeting the other unknowns with a cheer 

Virgins of sixty who still write of passion. 

The air is heavy with Canadian topics, 

And Lampman, Roberts, Carman, Campbell, Scot t. 
Are measured for their faith and philanthropies, 

Their zeal for God and King, their earnest thought. 

The cakes are sweet, but sweeter is the feeling 
That one is mixing with the literati . 

It warms the old, and melts the most congealing. 
Really, it is a most delightful party. 

Shall we go round the mulberry bush, or shall 
We gather at the river, or shall we 
Appoint a poet laureate this Fall, 

Or shall we have another cup of tea? 

O Canada, O Canada, Oh, can 
A day go by without new authors springing 
To paint the native lily, and to plan 
New ways to set the self-same welkin ringing.? 

Far in comer sits (tkcugh rare wculd knew it) 

The very picture of decorrelation. 

A rather lewd and most ungodly poet 
Writing these verses, for his soul’s salvation. 

F. R. S. 



To Evening 

THOU modest maiden, blessing the quiet light 
That gathers in thy forehead with repose 
And gradual coming in of peace, until the vale 
And all the neighbour copses and the late bright 
Hill and the tall poplar trees in stately rows 
dimmer awhile, and fading, fail. 

Turn thou also on me, a too tired child. 

The dark lustre of thy lovely eyes, 

Shew me thy countenance — how it is mild, 

Thy breast — how comforting, thy mien — how wise; 
And spill about my head thy dim, forgetful hair 
That the last light fading out of the yellow west 
Her peace and gentle loveliness may share 
With one whose all desire is only rest. 

Vincent Starr 



74 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



An Old Man 

Leo Kennedy 

H ENRY Price was an old man, and a self-centred 
sentimentalist like all old men. This nostalgia 
of old people, nostalgia for a quantity nonexis- 
tent scourges the backs of a later generation, but it is the 
sole existence of these old men. Nostalgia for remem- 
bered things, days, and friends: a swaddling of worn- 
out minds in the cotton wool of maudlin reminiscence: 
tea parties of shadows. All are sentimentalists and there 
is no escape; our father Adam in his time: our bastard 
the Superman when he comes. All whimpering, 
whimpering. 

Henry Price in the middle days had been a dry soul- 
ed fellow; settling finally into comfortable wedlock he 
watched the sons that were given him grow to man- 
hood and do likewise, each in his fashion. But now 
these were gone, and he was old and most Solitary, 
considering years. Three score years and ten heaped in 
a pile beyond him, that gave off an odor of drugged 
memories. Mr. Henry Price 

He sat on this occasion in a chair by a bright fire. 
Looking at that fire and bringing his comforter closer 
about him with palsied hands, he wandered into the 
inevitable introspection. He was old certainly, and 
soon he would die. The high adventure, but who 
wanted adventure at seventy? That was all very fine 
for the foolish young people, the fondly foolish young 
people who ride at adventure. When one was near to 
making the last gesture it took on the appearance of 
a grimace. 

He coughed. A dry fire scorched in his chest, shoot- 
ing here and there with little fierce jabs. He shook like 
some old skeleton of a tree in a gale before it is blown 
down. The grey head nodded on its column like a 
dotard magpie’s. The comforter was not warm enough, 
had not been warm even in the Autumn. And through 
the winter that was past he had been cold all day long, 
and stiff and waxen in the nights. Now it was March 
surely, but one needed a fire, a red fire that flickered 
and made pretences, but which did not serve its 
purpose. 

People were like a fire. They fussed about — all hands 
and empty heads, they feigned a sympathy they did 
not feel, they flickered and made pretences. If you 
thrust the poker into the fire it went through the 
flames and came out at the other side of the grate. Peo- 
ple were like that. You could poke a metaphorical fin- 
ger through them and prove their instability; they 
were a lot of wraiths waiting for you to become a 
wraith. It was a desperate coil to be surrounded by 
insensate things: people were insersate, and the fire, and 
comforters and chairs. It was all a bubble, pretty per- 
haps, but untuned to one’s ego and so fugitive. The 
only certainty was that if you turned suddenly, mak- 
ing some false movement, it would pop, with only a 
wet smear on the floor to testify any previous exis- 
tence. The familiar friends and potshards of his youth 
had not been like that. They were real, remembered; 
but now it seemed these were all dead or broken. 
Strange, the thoughts that crowded out of corners and 
came colored and swiftly changing when one sat by a 
fire. 

* * * 

Vague figures out of some lost fantasy, old sights 



and remembered sounds. Nothing mattered but that 
which went on inside your head; the inside of your 
head was a queer thing; a cavern and a maze; a thous- 
and sealed cells that opened casually of their own voli- 
tion to frighten or gladden you with the glimpse of 
their contents; and then snapped shut as a lamp is ex- 
tinguished. Silver and purple and a sweeping of grey 
stuff; chords of music reverberating in the hollow frame 
of a violin, lost presently in the weird piping of flutes; 
the sugar icing and nine candles on a birthday cake 
consumed long ago; the candles melting and forming 
quaint shapes of wax; many children shouting delight- 
edly. A familiar voice cautioned against something of 
vital importance: it was heartbreaking that he could 
not receive the phrases clearly. It trailed off, and 
there was again that damned violin 

Another fit of coughing threw him together, and 
tossed the odds and ends of thought into a disorder of 
colored threads. From the flux he picked out the 
face of an early friend. The face grew and deepened 
before him till it filled the room; then it dwindled to a 
white spot seen far away. He looked at this friend 
and saw that he was there also; they walked laughing 
down a wide street. Presently they paused and the 
friend gave him money. He pocketed it, highly amus- 
ed at something. The Henry Price in the chair tried 
vainly to remember what had provoked his mirth at 
that time. He grouped blindly within his mind for 
the connecting link, his hands encountering only 
smooth soft walls that mocked him. He beat upon 
the walls with his fists and they seemed to sink in a 
little way, as though they struck upon a too yielding 
flesh. He wanted to scream, and anyhow, ran from 
that place. 

But he was still in his chair. And the fire chortled 
hypocritically and the friend’s face and his own had 
merged in a swirl of other faces. Faces of people long 
dead, people he had known and loved in his chill way; 
people he had seen for a moment and never known. 
Faces too, it seemed, that he had never looked upon. 
Ah. a rotting mind was a hell of exquisite punishment. 
Hell fire, the hell fire one heard of would be child's 
play to this. Hell fire was a huge joke, for though 
fire burned, still there was no heat to fire. It flickered 
and made pretences, like people. If you thrust a poker 
into fire it came out at the other side What 

had he done in life that he should suffer so, now that 
he was old? He had been a good man, he had been 
righteous, a prop to his friends, to society. Society, 
that was people in the mass, stupid people, nice people, 
plain people, existing and giving him the things he 
needed. They had not always given willingly, some- 
times he exhorted. But that was as it should be. It 
was cold, so cold. He felt the cold creeping into him; 
the marrows of his bones must be solid ice. Grey ice 
it would be. with little veins running through it. The 
thought set him rocking backward and forward 

Was there no respite from this, no interim between 
cold and when one might think of green things grow- 
ing and feel the good sun? No moment of warm 
pavements under foot, no warm wind from the south 
bringing promise and vague, heartening perfumes? 
April would come presently and that was Spring. 
Spring was a glad time with green things, and young 
people laughing, and instinctively pairing. He remem- 
bered Spring. But what had that to do with an old 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



75 



man rubbing a stubbled chin in a chair: an old man 
whom no one understood; with whom even inanimate 
things had no communion? He slouched forward 
clutching the pain in his chest. At least there was 
some little warmth. A scorching rather. 

He sat awhile so, and the change that he knew and 
hated drew over him. The self pitying mood fell 
from him like a husk and he knew himself an embit- 
tered old man staring wide-eyed at his own futility. He 
had done nothing to justify an existence that was 
merely tentative and greedy for the good things; he 
had clamoured always for more than his portion. A 
parasite on the good tree of life; a dog's whimpering 
made man. He twisted in his chair, squirming nearer 
to the fire and muttering in his stubble. There was 
no warmth in that fire, he reflected, but had there ever 
been? He settled back into the chair, tugging the com- 
forter about his throat. The coals burned lower and 
his wheezing breath became even and quiet. 

* * * 

I like to think he fell asleep. 



Student Government at McGill 

T. H. Harris 

I F I were asked to set about reforming student 
government at McGill University I should not 
attempt to do so by removing at one stroke its 
keystone, The Students’ Executive Council, as was 
recently suggested in these columns, but rather would I 
restrict the activities of the Council, and minimize and 
in some cases abolish altogether the control which it 
exercises over constituent societies. 

Since the death sometime during the current session 
of The McGill Canadian Club there remain fourteen 
clubs, societies, and publications owing allegiance, chief- 
ly of a financial nature, to the Students Executive 
Council. It is often stressed by supporters of the pres- 
ent régime that this control is only financial, and that 
no attempt is made by the Council to interfere with the 
general policies of its members. But it is not a matter 
of great difficulty to appreciate the fact that the body 
controlling the purse strings controls at the same time, 
in practice if not in theory, the policies of the societies 
to which it doles out funds. 

What I propose doing now is to try to show by 
grouping some of these constituent members, and by 
dealing with others individually, that their connection 
with the Students' Executive Council may be advan- 
tageously severed in some cases, weakened in others, 
and in perhaps one, that of the Union, strengthened. 
Whatever powers are left to The Students’ Executive 
Council after the processes have been completed I feel 
would be exercised best by the Council. 

Take first the case of the Union. It is admitted 
that its present position is more or less untenable and 
that some remedial measures are necessary. The sug- 
gestion has been advanced that the control of the Un- 
ion be vested in the University Governing Board. This 
is an excellent suggestion but one which for the present 
does not seem likely to materialize. Alternatives offer 
themselves: either place the Union under direct control 
of the Students’ Executive Council, doing away with 
the useless and laughable intermediary The Union 



House Committee, or separate the Union entirely from 
the Council, placing it in the hands of a real and inde- 
pendent committee. 

I advance the first of these suggestions as the more 
satisfactory because the second has been tried and found 
wanting. It seems natural that the central executive 
body of the students should be placed in charge of the 
Union. Under such an arrangement the members of 
the Council would be given a number of definite and 
useful duties to perform and would not meet for the 
purpose of deciding whether McGill should become em- 
broiled in an organisation such as The National Feder- 
ation of Canadian University Students or whether John 
Doe should, or should not receive a major executive 
award, grade B. Under the present system, the dif- 
ferent parts of the Union, viz. the Cafeteria, Tuck 
Shop. Billiard Hall, etc., are supposedly under the super- 
vision of individual members of the House Committee. 
In practice they are under the surveillance only of the 
salaried secretary-treasurer of the Council. He is a busy 
man. with multifarious and complicated duties and ob- 
viously cannot pretend to perform all the little tasks 
necessary to the proper conduct of the Union. The 
problems of finance contingent on the changes outlin- 
ed above I shall discuss later. 

Next, and perhaps equally important are the publi- 
cations. Under this head are the Annual, the Daily . 
the Students Directory and the Handbook. From the 
time it was first published in 1898 until 1925, the 
McGill Annual was entirely independent of The Stu- 
dents’ Executive Council. The 1926 Annual by its 
own request came within the jurisdiction of the Coun- 
cil. On the advice of the senior member of the previ- 
ous board a letter was sent to the Council asking it to 
assume financial responsibility for the Annual. Only 
after correspondence had been exchanged for several 
months and only after it became certain that the 1926 
Annual would be a revenue producer did the Council 
acquiesce in the request of the editorial board. Although 
I was at the time one of the principal proponents of 
the plan to include the Annual in the list of activities 
coming under the Council's control I have since chang- 
ed my view and have come to the conclusion that the 
Annual could once again carry on as it did for twenty- 
seven years. The Annual is on a sound financial basis 
and well able to take care of itself without external aid 
or control. 

After serving for five years in various capacities on the 
McGill Daily I feel certain that it, too, could not only 
carry on but even greatly improve its position if it were 
divorced from the Council. The opinion is generally 
held that an independent daily is necessarily violently 
radical and that the sentiments it voices through its 
editorial columns are a malign influence. This is un- 
true: the numerous independent newspapers published 
at United States’ colleges amply proving the opposite. 

Under present conditions, although the Daily is 
well-treated by the Council and works in harmony 
with it, it cannot enjoy the editorial liberty that a cam- 
pus newspaper should. As has been previously stated 
in these columns, if the Daily were independent “It 
would once more represent a point of view, per- 

haps even a body of opinion.’’ As matters stand now, 
the Daily must willy-nilly reflect the views of the 
Council, for it is impossible for the editor of a news- 
paper to publicly hold opinions which are in discord 
with those of the proprietor. It will be agreed, furth- 



76 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



er, that the views of the Council are not always neces- 
sarily soundest or best. 

An independent daily could not of course enjoy the 
bounty of a portion of the Universal Fee, but I am 
certain that a subscription campaign would find suffi- 
cient subscribers among the students. As is done at 
several universities, the Daily could be delivered each 
morning before breakfast to students living in what 
may be called the “college area.” The others would 
find copies addressed to them at the university build- 
ings. Even professors, who at present steal their copies 
of the Daily might under these conditions be persuaded 
to become subscribers, since most of them are readers. 

An independent daily would, of course, employ a 
salaried advertising manager, who would have no duties 
other than the soliciting of advertisements for this 
newspaper and subsidiary publications. The editorial 
policy would be controlled by a board of editors who 
possessed sufficient experience in undergraduate matters 
to enable them to reflect a mature and reasonable point 
of view. 

The useful McGill Handbook could be published by 
the independent Daily and still be as useful. The same 
might easily apply to the Students ' Directory. 

The much criticised Scarlet Key Society likewise 
could function without the Council's aid. As I under- 
stand it, this society at the present time raises by its 
own efforts the money it spends on the entertainment 
of visitors. Why then the affiliation with the Coun- 
cil? 

The Bureau of Appointments, a very useful institu- 
tion, is, I contend rightfully under the charge of the 
Council. Deprived of numerous other “duties” now 
accruing to it, the Council could, through its salaried 
employees, devote more time to this necessary activity. 

There remain The Literary and Debating Society. 
The Players' Club, The Red and White Revue and 
the subsidiaries of The Musical Association. 

With the possible exception of the Red and White 
Revue, I fail to see what arguments can be brought up 
in favor of retaining connection between these organ- 
izations and The Students’ Executive Council. I am 
unable to agree with the contention that the Players' 
Club and The Red and White Revue be combined. The 
purposes of these activities arc diametrically opposed. 
That of the first is the presentation of plays by stan- 
dard playwrights and that of the second twofold: the 
reflection of contemporary university life and the rais- 
ing of a large sum of money for the Council. 

As long as it is necessary for the Students’ Execu- 
tive Council to add to its funds through extraneous ac- 
tivities it will be necessary for the Red and White Re- 
vue to be produced by the Council. When such funds 
are no longer necessary there is no reason why The Re- 
vue should not sever its connection. 

The undergraduate societies and such organizations 
as The Political Economy Club. The Philosophical So- 
ciety and The Commercial Society have satisfactorily 
demonstrated that a campus society can exist without 
the motherly care of The Students’ Executive Council. 

The above suggestions necessitate financial readjust- 
ment. At the present time The Students' Executive 
Council receives six dollars from each undergraduate, 
divided as follows: Union $3.00. Daily $1.50, Coun- 
cil proper $1.50. As long as it is necessary to retain 
a universal fee I would suggest the following change: 



Union $4.50, Council proper $1.00, Debating Socie- 
ty, $0.50. 

The reduced grant to the Council will be offset by 
its greatly reduced expenditures. The one dollar per 
capita realised from the Universal Fee and revenues 
produced by The Revue should more than amply fi- 
nance the employment bureau and pay the salaries of 
the Council employees, whose number could now be 
reduced. The Union certainly requires more money 
than it at present receives and the fifty cents alloted to 
the Debating Society would enable it to entertain many 
visiting “teams.” Other societies, through their activi- 
ties could finance themselves. 

As I bring this article to an end I realise that it is 
an almost useless task to attempt to set out in some fif- 
teen hundred words a plan for the reformation of stu- 
dent government at this university. To do so adequately 
would require at least five times the space. Plans in- 
adequately presented are apt to be misread and I fear 
that this is likely to be the case with the present article. 
The plans here presented have only been outlined in 
barest form; the financial reformation has been even 
more hastily considered, constitutional questions have 
been left entirely untouched. For all this I must 
apologise, protecting myself only by promising to an- 
swer questions that any one may care to ask me about 
this subject. 



The Shepherd’s Lament 

LESS sadly o'er this sylvan grot 
The gentle zephyrs move 
That now are here and now are not 
Than do the thoughts of love 

Return to share the virgin shade 
Where once with lovely Phyllis 
In deep delight awhile I strayed 
In groves of little willows. 

Such Beauty lingered in her eye 
And in her fragrant bosom 
That Sensibility must sigh 
To pluck so sweet a blossom. 

But ah! when Loveliness disarms 
The too punctilious lover 
And contemplation of her charms 
Is all he dare discover 

Full oft the Swain will taste regret. 

The Nymph misunderstand, 

With dewy tears her pillow wet 
And be by others manned. 

Corydon 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



77 



The Rising Tide in China 

Edward Bing-Shuey Lee 

A S far back as 1853 William H. Seward predicted 
that “henceforth, every year, European commerce. 
European politics, European though, European ac- 
tivities . . . and European connections . . . will . . . 
sink in importance, while the Pacific Ocean, its shores, 
its islands, and the vast regions beyond will become 
the chief theatre of events in the world’s great here- 
after.” To-day that prophecy is coming true, and in 
1921 the universal significance of the dawning Orient 
was acknowledged when General Smuts wrote in a 
summary of the proceedings of a conference of Prime 
Ministers of the British Empire: “The scene has shift- 
ed away from Europe to the Far East and to the 
Pacific. There Europe, Asia and America are meeting, 
and there, I believe, the next great chapter of human 
history will be enacted.” 

The causes of the present situation in China may 
be classified as political, economic, social and psychol- 
ogical. It is the intention of the author to deal with 
the social and psychological factors. The characteristics 
of Chinese civilization are essentially different from 
those of the West, as the Chinese have developed a 
code of ethics and morality without outside influ- 
ences. Her sages teach self-restraint, modesty and 
respect for personality; and it is due to these influences 
that the conscious pursuit of an objective to an 
ultimate and brutal conclusion is restrained, if the 
rights and liberties of personality must be trampled 
upon. The ancient philosophers of China taught that 
nations become strong, not by killing off their ene- 
mies. but by bearing with them, coming to terms with 
them, and finally civilizing them. The West, with its 
display of force, cannot penetrate the psychology of 
the Chinese and is of the firm belief that a passive 
attitude is necessarily a sign of weakness. One must 
not forget that there is a Chinese proverb which says. 
"Those who are right need not talk loudly.” There- 
fore, the greater the display of force and battleships, 
the louder the table-thumpings and the more insistent 
the ultimatums, the more the Chinese are convinced 
that the case is inherently weak. On the other hand, 
the Western military mind does not sanction any 
show of "weakness,” for prestige to the Westerner 
can only be maintained with a strong hand. That the 
gunboat policy has been a traditional means of “con- 
ciliation” is admitted in an editorial on "British Policy 
in China” in the Asiatic Review , when the writer in- 
forms us that "there are those who would resort to 
gunboats, reminding us that force is the only thing 
that Orientals understand.” 

According to the Codification Commission on 
International Law appointed by the League of 
Nations, "The exercise by warships of the right of 
free passage may be subjected by the riparian State to 
special regulations. Foreign warships when admitted 
to territorial waters must observe the local reg- 
ulations ... If a serious and continued offence is com- 
mitted, the commander of the vessel shall receive a 
semi-official warning in courteous terms, and if this 
is without effect, he may be . . . compelled to put to 
sea.” Apparently International Law does not apply to 
China, for foreign gunboats patrol the waterways in 
the interior of China; while at the Washington Con- 
ference for the Limitation of Armaments it was agreed 



that ‘the powers have from time to time stationed 
armed forces in China . . . and that certain of these 
armed forces are maintained without the authority of 
of any treaty or agreement.” In an address before the 
American Society of International Law, Elihu Root 
declared that the sending of warships "is always an 
impeachment of the effective sovereignty of the gov- 
ernment in whose territory the armed intervention 
occurs, ... It leads to many abuses, especially in the 
conduct of those nationals who, feeling that they are 
backed up by a navy, act as if they were superior to 
the laws of the country in which they are residing and 
permit their sense of immunity to betray them into 
arrogant and offensive disrespect.” Bertrand Russell, 
the British philosopher, in giving his views on the 
subject, declared. “Let us not let our policy be decided 
by admirals on the spot, as we are doing at present.” 

To the Chinese mind, it appears that while the West 

is sending missionaries to preach the gospel of love 
and universal brothehood of man, no better technique 
has been worked out than that represented by the 
machine gun, which is used to intimidate the people 
with whom the industrialists of the West are endeav- 
ouring to do business. 

China's foreign relations during the last half 
century have convinced the younger generation that 
the only means of securing her rights lies in adopting 

the force of the West. A well-known Japanese states- 

man remarked that “as long as we produce men of art 
and men of culture we are uncivilized, but when we 
build battleships we are called civilized.” Young 
China is beginning to view force and militarism in 
the same perspective as do Western nations, and to base 
her life on principles which she knows to be inferior, 
but which she must adopt in order to gain thé 
“respect” of the foreign powers. 

While man has conquered nature and has brought 
the ends of the earth together by means of science, it 
cannot be denied that the greatest problem yet to be 
solved is how the races of the world can live together 
in harmony instead of jumping at each other’s throats. 
The most outstanding question is the superiority 
complex. While the Anglo-Saxons cherish a belief in 
the superiority of a great Nordic race, it is rather dif- 
ficult to realize that other peoples have also deep- 
seated confidence in their superiority. The present 
preponderance of Western nations in the life of the 
world will not be accepted by other races as conclusive 
evidence of the innate superiority of white races, for 
this predominant position is mainly due to the com- 
mand over the forces of nature. The advance in science 
among Western people has been the result of favour- 
able circumstances, and it is quite conceivable that the 
other races may be able to overcome their initial dis- 
advantage through the assimilation of the knowledge 
and experience which the West has accumulated. 

The superiority complex which exists in China in 
the relations of foreigners towards Chinese, and also 
the existence of a similar situation abroad, has retard- 
ed the development of international ethics to the 
extent that the dream of peace in this universe cannot 
yet be realized. While more than eighty per cent of 
the tax-payers are Chinese in the city of Shanghai 
where there is no Chinese representation on the 
Municipal Council, signs posted in front of the beau- 
tiful park read. "No Chinese or dogs allowed.” A 
Chinese remarked that the ruling was much heavier 



78 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



on the Chinese than the dogs, since the dogs paid no 
taxes. 

A university graduate who returned from his studies 
in England a few years ago travelled on the same ship 
with four young Englishmen. Three of them were 
on the best of social terms with him; but the fourth 
would have nothing to do with him because he had 
lived in Shanghai, where the Chinese up till its capture 
by the Cantonese had absolutely no voice in the affairs 
of the municipal government and this situation 
has given the idea to some Europeans that 
all. Chinese are inferior to them. In the port cities 
the exclusive British and American dubs will not 
admit any Chinese, whether they are qualified either 
through education or financial standing, and members 
cannot entertain their Chinese friends in these clubs. 

A few years ago a British official invited the Hon. 
Tang Shao Yi, former prime minister and a great 
scholar, to dine with him at the Shanghai Club. Dr. 
Tang was turned back at the door by the Sikh police 
on guard. It was raining, but he was not allowed to 
step inside the doorway, and was compelled to stand 
in the rain while his card was sent to his would-be 
host. This man came out and had to confer with the 
distinguished statesman on the steps, and explain his 
inability to entertain him. Such incidents are not 
confined to China alone, and it is interesting to note 
that a woman graduate of a university in England was 
planning for her return to China, when she found that 
it was impossible for her to secure passage unless she 
bought two tickets and reserved an entire state room. 
The steamship company upheld this attitude by point- 
ing out that there were no other Chinese booked, and 
that it would be impossible to sell the other berth in 
the cabin to any white person. Even in the city of 
Montreal one of the friends of the writer could not 
secure admission to a certain theatre, and the manager 
informed him that the admission of a Chinese would 
probably ruin his future business. We engaged a lawyer 
to investigate this case and appealed to the Chinese 
Consul-General at Ottawa who demanded an ex- 
planation. The theatre manager came out with the 
"alibi" that it was a mistake, and that Chinese will 
be admitted in fututre. 

These incidents may seem trivial to the European 
but they are deeply felt and resented by us Chinese, 
for everwhere we go we are confronted with the same 
attitude of superiority in spite of the fact that Chinese 
civilization was highly developed when the inhabitants 
of Europe were chasing each other about with 
stone axes. 

There is to-day a body of commercial, official and 
educational leaders, many of them trained in England 
and America, who discriminate between good breed- 
ing and boorishness, and who appreciate being treated 
with courtesy. They hold the opinion that it is not 
necessary to do business with people who treat us 
with contempt. 

To the Chinese mind, the reluctance to withdraw 
extra-territoriality and special privileges which Euro- 
peans cannot secure in any other part of the world is 
only a manifestation of the superiority complex. At 
bottom it is this feeling which is responsible for the 
unwillingness to come under Chinese law and jurisdic- 
tion, in spite of the fact that many important revisions 
have been made in the civil and criminal codes. The 
unpleasant experiences in the treaty ports as well as 
in foreign countries have brought the realization that 



China must become strong in the Western sense in 
order to gain the respect of the Occident. While the 
West is endeavouring to give the assurance that the 
unequal treaties will be abolished as soon as China 
has put her house in order, she cannot do so because 
she does not even have control of her own house. 
Thus, four hundred and thirty million people are 
united in the desire to abolish foreign domination, and 
to conclude new treaties on a basis of equality. 

While the first Revolution in 1911 was directed at 
the overthrow of the Manchu regime and the establish- 
ment of the Republic, the present revolutionary move- 
ment aims at the overthrow of the military leaders who 
have been keeping the country in a state of chaos for 
so many years and whose sole aim is profit and graft. 
The writer can say with a certain amount of confid- 
ence that the aims and policy of the Kuomintang are 
gaining the favour of the masses in China, for it is 
upon the success of the Cantonese that the people of 
China hope to abolish all unequal treaties which bind 
China's hands and feet. The only party that has 
definite principles to fight for is the Canton Govern- 
ment, and these are, namely: — (1) People's Nation- 
alism, or the freedom of the Chinese people from for- 
eign imperialism; (2) People’s Sovereignty, or democ- 
racy for the people; (3) Means of Providing a Living 
for the People. 

To attempt to stem the tide of Chinese nationalism 
by branding it with fancy names would be as futile 
as attempting to stop the waves, for it cannot be denied 
that every people has a right to rule its own country. 
One must not forget the words of Benjamin Frank- 
lin: “It is in human nature that injuries as well as 
benefits received in times of weakness and distress, 
national as well as personal, make deep and lasting 
impressions.” 



Middle Age Speaks 

I KNOW two funny folk who lived, 

One Chelsea way and one in Greenwich village, 
And neither earned his keep by any 
Customary form of pillage. 

They borrowed money from their friends, 
Not knowing when they could repay; 

And neither saved against old age; 

They lived from day to day. 

They drank when there was drink about; 

They were not of the Nordic Race: 
Parents and schoolmasters would call 
Their social habits a disgrace. 

But I who have achieved success, 

Of sorts, I who havè practised thrift, 

And hold substantial policies 
Would gladly cut myself adrift 

From safety and familiar ways, 

Neat children and a faithful wife. 

If I could really barter a 
Serene old age for Life. 

Philip Page 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



79 



Trelawny of the Wells 

(From our Special Correspondent ) 



Undertaker's Anthology 

A. J. M. Smith 



What can be said of the performance of Trelawny 
of the Wells given recently in the Moyse Hall? That 
the banality of Pinero is made fully apparent by an 
amateur performance of one of his plays? That it is a 
mystery that a man, who is as little of an artist as may 
well be, should have chosen to devote his life to the 
concoction of such Plays? But we must not lapse into 
metaphysics. Nearer home and equally obscure are the 
reasons for the choosing of this play by the English 
Department. 

First and last the most real emotion evoked by the 
play was a profound sympathy with the performers as 
they valiantly struggled with its amorphous bulk. It 
cannot be exactly stated perhaps, that the acting was 
good, as a statement of this kind would be misleading 
when the standard set by Loyalties is considered. And 
also because such a piece cannot be well acted. There 
is nothing to act, — in four hours not a dramatic mo- 
ment. It can only be well done, displaying, that is, 
good stage technique. This is the last thing in the or- 
dinary way to be expected from amateurs, as it can only 
come from long practice, a work-a-day familiarity with 
the stage. Success in amateur acting depends on a 
natural sense of drama and appreciation of character. 
Nevertheless, despite the material they had to handle, 
the players gave ample evidence of possessing these 
qualities. Mr. Herdt as Tom Wrench and Miss Gray 
as Rose Trelawny were the best; but the performance 
as a whole was remarkably even and such minor char- 
acters as Mrs. Mossop, Miss Trafalgar Gower and Sir 
William Gower, if we are not underrating his impor- 
tance, were ably presented. A word of congratulation 
is also due to Mr. Slatkoff for his Augustine Colpoys, 
the stage comedian. 

The chief weakness was a certain lack of spirit. But 
then the caste knew, what was mercifully hidden from 
our eyes, how long the play was going to last. As the 
evening wore on they were seen to be justified in their 
adoption of the methods of the long distance runner. 

The costumes, lighting, and staging were in general 
excellent. 

First and last, — no, for last a profound fatigue 
overcame everyone, actorsas well as audience, and the lat- 
ter moved uneasily in a sort of stupor on their seats now 
become adamantine. And when the curtain fell, as it 
seemed to do with infinite reluctance, they were to be 
seen walking out of the hall like somnambulists. The 
clock at the Gates chimed the half hour. It was 12:30 
p. m. 

"The period 1810-1835 was a winter solstice in 
English Drama. There had been no such lean years 
since 1590. Dramatists subordinated reality to conven- 
tionality, simplicity to affectation, truth to artificiality. 
Theatres resorted to farce, burlesque, pantomime and 
tearful sentimentalism." This we learnt from the pro- 
gramme. And the note went on to say, that it was 
with the object of celebrating Tom Robertson, who 
rescued us from this condition of affairs, that Pinero 
wrote his play. He admirably succeeded in making us 
realize the gratitude of the men of 1835 to this bold 
spirit. 



Two Epitaphs 

I 

UNDER this grassy mound 
Lies one of those who went 

Upon the solid ground 
Timidly and diffident. 

Her thoughts upon the air 
And the enfolding skies, 

Who in the thoughtless dust 
Now dreamless lies. 

II 

Say not of this lady 
Sleeping here 

That she was beautiful, beloved 
And dear; 

Tell no one she was witty, 
Graceful, fine; 

Tell no one, — this I beg you — 
She was mine; 

Only say she had a lover, 

Add that she is dead; 

Then go away and leave her — 
Everything is said. 



The Shrouding 

UNRAVEL this curdled cloud, 
Wash out the stain of the sun, 

Let the winding of your shroud 
Be delicately begun. 

Bind up the muddy Thames, 
Hearken the arrogant worm. 

Sew the seams and the hems 
With fine thread and firm. 

When the moon is a sickle of ice 
Reaping a sheaf of stars, 

Put pennies on your eyes, 

Lie you down long and sparse. 

Fold your thin hands like this, 
Over your breast, so; 

Protract no farewell kiss, 

Nor an elastic woe. 



Beside One Dead 

THIS is the sheath, the sword drawn; 

These are the lips, the Word spoken; 
This is Calvary toward dawn; 

And this is the third day token — 
The opened tomb and the Lord gone: 
Something Whole that was broken. 



80 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



Poem 

SAD boys who mourn that love dies young — 

Mourn rather that young love so long resists 

The fingers at his throat 

The thicker waistline and the thinner hair, 

Rouge, common holiday — and dies at last 

Not knowing immortality to lie 

In the clean thrust of a deliberate knife. 

Bliss Chapman 



BOOKS 

ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ASPECTS OF THE 
NOVA SCOTIA COAL INDUSTRY 

(By Eugene Forsey ; published by the Macmillan Com- 
pany of Canada : Price .7 5c) 

T HE second of last year's economics theses at Mc- 
Gill has been published. The story of the 
Nova Scotia coal industry is adequately des- 
cribed in all its aspects: the productivity of the mines, 
the organization of the Company, the protective tariff 
on coal, and the labor unions. The mines are produc- 
tive and there is a $0.53 duty, but the company 
complains that profits are low while labour conditions 
in the Nova Scotian mining area are known to be 
abominable. 

The history of the company is the record of a num- 
ber of coal-exploiting agencies in their efforts to rid 
themselves of useless competition without undergoing 
any financial loss. In 1893 the Dominion Coal Com- 
pany, a merger of operators in south Cape Breton, was 
organized as the first step towards general amalgama- 
tion. The promoters of this company attempted to 
regain the New England market. Under the old Elgin- 
Marcy Reciprocity Treaty the coal producers with 
their near American market, attainable through water 
transport, had enjoyed very great prosperity. The 
smoke regulations of New England towns are aimed 
at Cape Breton coal, which has been kept out of the 
United States by the American tariff as well. 

As far as the Canadian tariff for the protection of 
our own coal industry is concerned, the Nova Scotian 
coal financiers find that it is not high enough to assure 
them a steady market in the Central Provinces. Why is the 
tariff not high enough? Is it because the small consumers 
have for once been able to make themselves heard? Not 
in the least, because Nova Scotian coal is soft bitumin- 
ous coal used in factories. Our patriotic manufactur- 
ers of Quebec and Ontario have not allowed their en- 
thusiasm for a high tariff to extend so far as to dam- 
age their own interests through raising their cost of 
production. 

But Mr. Forsey is of the opinion that these manu- 
facturers will finally be compelled to use Canadian coal. 



The reason why they now use West Virginian soft 
coal is that there is little or no trade-unionization in 
the West Virginia fields. Mr. Forsey thinks that such 
conditions cannot last, that the cheap foreign labour 
in West Virginia is bound to wake up to its helpless- 
ness under the individual contract. By that time, the 
manufacturers of Central Canada will turn to the Mari- 
time Provinces for their coal. The figures taken by 
Mr. Forsey from the 1925 Report of the Royal Com- 
mission show a pit-head cost of $3.60 per long ton. 
He estimates that the water Ijaul to Montreal should 
not cost more than $1.00 per ton. 

Mr. Forsey thinks that the American market can- 
not be secured through Reciprocity; and he is against 
rail subventions for coal haulage, since in any case “the 
actual cost of rail transport is prohibitive." At the 
same time, he affirms that the idea of reducing the cost 
of coal mining by means of attacking the wage level is 
both unthinkable and inhuman. He argues for the 
collective contract with the Mine Workers' Union of 
America. 

Eugene Forsey 's work as compiler of facts and ex- 
positor of the problems is unfortunately marred by the 
bad results achieved by the technical experts who were 
in charge of the publication of the thesis. Bad index- 
ing, sloppy arrangement, and none too good proof- 
reading are some of the faults to be found with the 
printed monograph. 



THE FIRE OF DESERT FOLK 

{By Ferdinand Ossendowski ; E. P. Dutton if Com- 
pany, New York ; Price : — $3.00) 

T HE adventurous Pole releases another set of ex- 
periences, this time in North Africa. The sub- 
ject matter is, unlike that of his other books, al- 
most credible and correspondingly uninteresting. As 
a defence of the questionable policy of France in Moroc- 
co this book is more than adequate. 



MOSCOW GOLD 

(By General Sir Nicholas Hoare, K.C.B. , L.L.D., O. 
U.D.S., with biographical preface by his son-in-law , 
Marcus Lazaroff. Knapp if Dreme. $8.00. 784 pages) 

O NCE more we have the Soviet bugaboo in our 
midst. It is astounding, to the point of laughter, 
to see the trouble that such rabid Imperialists as 
Sir Nicholas will take in order to show up the “secret 
hand of Russia." In seven hundred and forty-eight pages 
this estimable military man has given a complete, ex- 
haustive and thoroughly biased account of all that Mos- 
cow has done, and is doing, to finance the progress of 
Communism, Radicalism and Anarchism in English, 
American and even the leading Canadian Universities. 
Incidentally, it reveals nothing more than is already 
known by our own Secret Service. 



