
VOL. VI. No. 3. 



TERMS : $1.00 Per Annum, in Advance. 



McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, MARCH 1st, 1883. 



mq i 



4-4 



ce> 



EDITORIAL COMMITTEE. 

Prof. Chas. E. Moyse, B.A., Consulting Editor. 

J. R. Murray. ’83, Arts. R. F. Ruttan, B.A., ’84, Med. 

J. E. Martin, ’83, Law. R. F. Smith, ’83, Ap. Sc. 

W. H. Turner, ’84, Arts. A. R. Davis, ’84, Ap. Sc. 

C. A. Duclos, B.A., ’84, Law. I H. J. Harrisson, ’83, Med. 



The University Gazette is published on the first of every month during 
the College Session. 

Rejected Communications will not be returned, to which rule no exception 
can be made. The name of the writer must always accompany a communication. 

CONTENTS. 

rAGE. 

Editorials 1-2 

Contributions 3 

College World 4-6 

Between the Lectures 6-7 

Personals 7 

Correspondence S 

Poetry 8 

New Books Received by Librarian 9 



i; tutorials. 

Proceedings are afoot by which a public library is to be established in 
Montreal. The wish to increase means of innocent pleasure and instruc- 
tion is laudable in the highest degree, and now that the leading cities of 
the Old World and of this Continent are busying themselves in looking after 
the wants of the working classes — their bone and sinew — Montreal should 
show itself alive fo its true interests. We do not know how much sympathy 
will be enlisted in favor of the scheme, but even in a country so young as 
this, • and one in which the race for wealth seems to absorb every effort, it is 
high time that a modicum of life be devoted to the quieter and more endur- 
ing influences that are to be gained only by contact with the best thought 
of the age. Canada does not lack national idols of a showy and transitory 
kind, and she spends time, energy, and a great deal of money in their wor 
ship, but her monuments w hich shall be more lasting than brass or marble 
have vet to be raised. The people who are conscious of the value of read- 
ing, even if they do not regard life as a grand merry-making, have a claim 
on the public ear and purse and can adduce very substantial reasons for in- 
dulgence in what is sometimes called eccentricity. Many a man alive to the 
vital worth of a good book as a source of temperate yet abiding pleasure, has 



little or no opportunity of indulging his tastes ; to him the establishment 
of a public library would be a boon indeed, as also to those whose daily 
duties lead them to frequent use of the literature relating to their respective 
avocations. A large and wealthy city like Montreal ought soon to boast 
of a library better equipped in all departments than those of the numerous 
institutions only now feeling their way towards stability. Our own University 
library although not very large — it contains about 20,000 volumes — 
is used as well by our Graduates and Undergraduates as by a portion of the 
general public. The systematic completeness of our card -catalogue makes 
reference an easy work, and it is one of the best signs of the internal vigour 
of McGill that its book-room contains a fair share of readers at all hours 
! of the day. We hope and expect that our store of literature will grow with 
the increasing power of the University of which it forms so essential a part, 
but this does not prevent us from discerning the incalculable benefit to be 
derived by Montreal from the existence of a public library in its midst. 
From the nature of things the University library is open to a comparatively 
small class, although we must own that those who enjoy its advantage make 
excellent use of the material to which they have access. Moreover the books 
on our shelves are, many of them, of such a technical character as to dis- 
qualify ordinary readers from appreciating their real value. A public library 
ought to have an honourable career in Montreal. Were Canada a reading 
country, or Montreal a reading city, the success of the scheme long mooted 
and at last on the point of realization, would be emphatically assured from 
the commencement. Be that as it may, there is room in Montreal for a 
public library to exert its influence unchecked ; indirectly, it will forward 
the cause of education and the institutions connected therewith, whether 
elementary or advanced. What is required for the community is a build- 
ing centrally situated, which shall contain all the standard words on literary 
and scientific subjects. The facilities for reference should be as generous 
as might be consistent with the legitimate needs of the public, and in the 
selection of new books from time to time a thoroughly liberal spirit should 
be exercised. There is nothing more gratifying than to see artisans spend- 
ing their evenings amid the quiet of books instead of frequenting places 
militating against temporal and spiritual welfare. The large towns of Eng- 
land afford such spectacles at the close of every day of labour, and in some 
instances the public libraries in provincial districts of that country have 
accumulated such a wealth of book-literature as to be the literary workshops 
of all classes. “ It is better to advance the knowledge of the world one inch 
than to win the long jump with two-and-twenty feet,” a recent novelist 
writes. Both are necessary, both the inch and two-and-twenty feet, but 
the neglect of either, especially the inch, is not to the credit of an enlight- 
ened country. We must exercise our bodily powers with assiduity if we de- 
sire to win admiration with arms or legs, whether in the arena of physical 
contest or artistic design, but the brain lives on all the while quietly and 
unobtrusively, lends itself with the greatest case to the mode of life its pos- 




9 



McGill university gazette. 



[March ist, 



sessor chooses, and often gives no sign of anything more than automatic 
existence. What is true of individuals is to a certain extent true of 
nations. A nation ought not to be less noble in reason, less infinite in 
faculty, less god-like in apprehension than a man. A brainless being 
though he may win the long jump with two-and-twenty feet, bears only the 
outward semblance of humanity ; in the essence of him he is little better than 
a forked radish. A short time ago a pointed article appeared in the Star 
on the advantage of fostering the mental life of the Dominion, and we 
hope it was not without its reward. We are reminded of some remarks by 
John Ruskin concerning the use of books, and although they do not 
bear exclusively on the matter of which we are speaking, they deserve to 
be quoted in connection therewith : — 

“ Life being very short, and the quiet hours of it few, we ought to 
waste none of them in reading valueless books ; valuable books should, in 
a civilized country, be within the reach of every one, printed in excellent 
form, for a just price ; but not in any vile, vulgar, or, by reason of small- 
ness of type, physically injurious form, at a vile price. For we none of us 
need many books, and those which we need ought to be clearly printed, on 
the fbest paper, and strongly bound. And though, we are, indeed, now, a 
wretched and poverty-struck nation, and hardly able to keep soul and body 
together, still, as no person in decent circumstances would put on his 
table confessedly bad wine, or bad meat without being ashamed, so he need 
not have on his shelves, ill-printed or loosely and wretchedly-stitched books ; 
for, though few can be rich, yet every man who honestly exerts himself, 
may, I think, still provide, for himself and his family, good shoes, good 
gloves, strong harness for his cart or carriage horse, and stout leather bind- 
ing for his books. And I would urge upon every young man, at the be- 
ginning of his due and wise provision for his household, to obtain as soon as 
he can, by the*severest economy, a restricted, serviceable, and steadily, 
though slowly, increasing series of books for use through life ; making 
his little library, of all the furniture in his room, the most studied and 
decorative piece ; every volume having its assigned place, like a little statue 
in its niche, and one of the earliest and strictest lessons to the children of 
the house being how to turn the pages of their own literary possessions 
lightly and deliberately, with no chance of tearing or dogs’ ears.” 



Of all the subjects which it is within our province to discuss, education is 
undoubtedly the one of most importance to all classes in the community, 
and it is therefore the one in which we feel the greatest interest, and con- 
cerning which we are most often led to speak. The exact relation of 
education to material advancement would form a subject of no small in- 
terest in itself, but it is not upon this feature of the question that we at 
present wish to dwell. We shall content ourselves with laying down the 
indisputable fact that in any country the general advancement will take 
place in direct proportion to the education of the people, other factors being 
supposed equal. It follows logically that the proper policy to be adopted 
by any community is to find and carry out the best plan for popular educa- 
tion. In carrying out the details of any system of popular education, one 
of the problems which at once present themselves is to decide what 
branches of instruction are to be selected as the fittest to be taught in the 
public schools. The shortness of the time which can be spent at school 
makes this determination of the relative value of knowledges necessary, 
to use Bacon’s expression. The standard by which this determination is 
to be made is undoubtedly that of usefulness. So that those subjects ought 
to be taught in the ordinary schools which are likely to be of the greatest 
service to the majority in after-life. Up to a certain point not much diffi- 
culty is found in distinguishing what these subjects are : and it is quite 
unnecessary for us to enter into any enumeration. Beyond this point, 
however, opinions begin to diverge, and they continue to diverge more rapidly 
as it becomes more difficult to apply the standard. Now it seems to us 
that in the case of public schools, since they are maintained by the com- 
munity for the good of the community, the object to be kept in view 
is the general benefit, that is the benefit of the community as a whole. 
It is only on these grounds that the community as a whole has any 
right to meddle with the education of its members. We, of course, recog- 
nize that the character of the community will depend upon the condition 
of the majority of the individuals that compose it, but this does not alter 
the way in which we must look at the question. We are led to speak 
on this subject by a letter which appeared in our last issue, complaining 



of the system of education pursued in our Common Schools as being ill- 
calculated to prepare boys for the struggle to make a living, as well as 
for other reasons, to which we shall refer presently. Now although we 
must be careful to recollect that it is by no means the sole object even 
of our common schools to enable young men to make a living, yet this 
forms a great part of the whole, and a part which demands our first 
attention. The object of schools maintained by the community must be, 
on the very ground that they are thus maintained, to make good and 
profitable citizens , but the very first requisite towards making young 
men good citizens, is to give them means of self-preservaticn and support. 
Thus any complaint as to the inadequacy of our present system for that 
purpose ought to be carefully examined into, and all the possible means 
of improvement rationally discussed In the present case we must con- 
fess that the grounds of complaint have been very vaguely aud con- 
fusedly stated. Gathering together the different parts which bear on this 
particular point, the charge seems to consist in this: that after boys are 
taught to read, write and figure, they learn little that can be of any 
practical use to them in after-life ; that they are required to commit to 
memory a mass of facts, concerning which they never reason, and which 
they are not allowed to state in their own words ; and that the method 
of instruction employed does not afford sufficient opportunities for exer- 
cising the reasoning faculties. The remedy suggested is, to teach the 
pupils a little logic, and even a little political science, and to give them 
every opportunity of exercising their reasoning faculties. We cannot 
claim to have a very intimate knowledge with the working of our com- 
mon schools, but we were under the impression that something more t^an 
reading, writing, and figuring was taught which was of practical use. If 
this be not the case, we recommend most strongly that some of the or- 
dinary subjects, such as grammar, geography, history, composition, and 
elementary mathematics be added — a knowledge of which is eminently 
useful and eminently practical. We cannot, however, agree with the writer 
of this letter that after a boy has learned how to read, write, and figure, 
he should proceed to the study of political science and logic. He must 
evidently consider the disease to be very desperate, for he proposes a 
very desperate remedy. In the highest classes some logic might possibly 
be taught with advantage, but the proposal to try and impart a knowl- 
edge of these subjects at the early stage proposed in X’s letter, is too 
evidently unwise to need any discussion. As to committing to memory 
masses of dry facts, it is one of the necessities of education, and all that 
can be done in the matter is to present these facts in as palatable a 
form as possible. Education from one point of view may be considered 
as consisting of two stages, the one being the period during which we 
attain so a knowledge of elementary facts, and the other in which we use 
our faculties in more or less original work. The ordinary school period 
seems to lie well within the former of these stages. As the writer says 
to all intents and purposes the real education of the pupils does not 
begin until they have left school, but then this after education is built 
upon the foundation laid in the common school, and its success to a 
very large extent depends upon the character of this foundation. Of 
course even in the schools there is a certain amount of what we have de- 
cribed as original work, and we quite agree that every opportunity of exer- 
cising their reasoning faculities ought to be given to the pupils, but we 
must not expect too much at this early stage. 

But the letter to which we refer contains a second and distinct charge 
which opens up a subject into the discussion of which we have considerable 
diffidence in entering. It is the old complaint against the purely secular 
education of our public schools. On this subject our vie^s differ entirely 
from those expressed in the letter. Neither in the interests of religion itself, 
nor for the carrying out of the primary object of public schools, do we think 
that religious instruction should be given. Experience fully corroborates 
what might easily be foreseen, that the religious instruction which could be 
given in public schools tends very much to produce irreligiousness, and a 
total want of that reverence without which religion is impossible. 



We are obliged to our Morrin College friends for their communication. 
The matter to which they refer does not deserve any notice from us, and 
on the letter to which they direct our attention, the old line from Horace— 
Vis consi/i expers mole ruit sua — is an apt commentary. 



1 88 3 .] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



3 



(Contributions. 

( ^ 1 are n °t responsible for any opinions expressed in this column . — Eds.,) 

Students and Gentlemen and Men. 

The conviction that a man’s actual belief on any subject of vital impor- 
tance can in this age be more truthfully ascertained from his actions than 
his professions, seems to be deepening. If it be so, a few conclusions may 
be drawn with respect to college students, that if well-founded, are very 
su gg est i ve * First of all, it is a fact worthy of explanation, that a consider- 
able proportion of even graduates of colleges seem to have very little 
either of refined feeling or lofty moral sentiments Many a man who takes 
a gold medal in classical or modern literature, enters a profession, and so 
far as those who meet him can judge, never betrays any real love for that 
branch of literature to which to all appearances when an under-graduate he 
was a devotee. Another difficulty needs explanation. How is it that so 
many men that have apparently that intellectual ability to master literature, 
or at least, literary forms, seem to embody so little of its refining influences 
in the ‘ outer man? That such practices as are implied iD the term ‘ hazing ’ 

which seems to be a sort of epidemic, moral epidemic, of late among 
American Colleges, should thus prevail, affords sufficient grounds for these 
questionings. The conclusion seems inevitable that a large number of men 
resort to institutions for higher culture, who have no real capacity for such 
culture — 1 no deepness of earth ’ — or there are strong neutralizing, prevent- 
ing influences in operation ; perhaps boih. 

There can be no doubt that a large number of men undertake profes- 
sional study who have no special love for the professions they adopt ; so 
much the worse for the professions, so much the worse for the men. But 
it is also true that men choose an Arts course with equally little love for 
science or literature. Admitting the fact, we must ask, “ is there any 
remedy ” ? So long as an examination is made the sole standard by which 
men are to be accepted or rejected, barren souls will get into pasture. But 
it is a pleasing feature of the advance of the age to note that at some of the 
most progressive educational institutions of the world, examination is no 
longer the test in selecting students, for at least the mere advanced 
study. 

With respect to the Balfour Memorial Studentship in Science, soon to be 
established in England, it is distinctly stated that the election of the man to 
enjoy the honour shall not be by competitive examination ; but that 
individual shall be chosen who seems best fitted to carry out the objects of 
the ‘ studentship.’ 

But again, admitting that all those that matriculate are not just the sort 
of stuff that the Universities care to mother if better could be found to 
become her children, what can be done to improve the material now that 
it is on hand ? We make a few suggestions : — 

(i ). The establishment, as soon as possible, of conditions favourable to a 
genuine ‘ college life.’ In America there is less of this than in England, 
and in Canada less than in the United States. Men attend classes at 
college, but it can scarcely be said they attend college. They know very 
little of each other outside of the classes, and that mutual reaction of mind 
on mind elsewhere is all but unknown to us. Until it exists it is difficult to 
conceive of the growth of that sort of culture which makes the gentleman 
and fills out the man. We deprecate the formation of coteries and cliques , 
but we would hail with the utmost cordiality any means that would develope 
the social, the refined, and the manly in our students. 

(2) . The formation and especially the hearty support of societies, both 
literary and scientific. These societies might become strong enough to 
secure the services of able men as lecturers, readers, &c., outside of the 
college and the city. A society calls upon a man for some exhibition and 
therefore some development of his individuality, which is apt to be lost sight 
of in the ordinary college work. 

(3) . The interchange in various ways of intercollegiate courtesies, &c., 
&c., which would open the eyes of all to points of special merit possessed 
by others. 

But it is not likely that these desirable results can be achieved so long as 
students remain content to be merely students, without aiming at being 
cultured gentlemen and rounded men. We need a change in our views of 
what is desirable. A college should not be considered an institution whose 
chief end is to quicken a man’s wits so that he may merely act his way the 
better through the world attain a position, or amass wealth. He may do 
both without being any the less a gentleman or a man ; indeed he is the 
more likely to do so, but should he attain neither high social position nor 
wealth, his life must not be considered a failure. Let us hope that in the 
future we shall have less preaching to youth of the doctrine of excelling 
other people and more of excelling the present general standard. Preach 
not to A. about excelling B., but of A.’s excelling his present self and 
striving after that symmetrical manliness implying mental, moral and 
physical development. In this country we need the lesson of patient 
steady toil, so well known in the older countries of Europe. We fret, we 
chafe, we fume. And for what ? Often only to get free to use what we 
have for the commonest ends— to make money or attain social or other 



distinction. After all, when we act thus, how much better are we than 
those that never entered a college ? But that is not all — how much worse ? 
Y et these things need not be ; let us apply the remedies. 

We are making some progress and some of its signs are visible at McGill. 
Here is a field for the noblest ambition. We may begin by pruning but we 
shall end in a more perfect growth. 

T. W. M. 



The Legal Profession. 

Just at this time, when McGill has equipped another fleet and is about 
to launch it on the legal sea, the remarks of Ex-Governor Hubbard on 
“ Professional Fame,” would seem to us to be very appropriate.* Too 
often do we hear the profession of the law underrated, and even its practice 
declared inconsistent with that of Christianity. If such remarks were con- 
fined to rogues and rascals, who have just cause to deride what they must 
fear, we should not be surprised ; but it is astonishing to find so many, ap- 
parently honest and certainly common-sense persons, carried away by this 
popular idea. Is it, that from their hurried judgment, they fail to distinguish 
between an evil, and the remedy necessary to cure such evil ? It would 
seem so. For every day we hear this sophism, “ Oh the Law ! it only can 
have play when misfortunes and troubles befall us.” Very true. But does 
it create these misfortunes and troubles ? Is it not rather the prudent agent 
of Justice, ever ready to redress the wrongs which the blunders of others 
have caused ? When a young man by some overt act has disclosed a talent 
of dubious merit, you will hear his friends cry out, “ You would make a fine 
lawyer.” Now wfiy should this be? If those who are so prone to find 
fault were honest in their attacks, they would see that such tactics rather 
increase the evil they deplore, for many an otherwise bright intelligence has 
been thus deterred from entering the profession ; whilst rogues have been 
led to think that in it they would find scope for their roguery, and in this 
way have swelled the ranks of the few who throw discredit on a noble pro- 
fession. We hope that in the quotation which follows the members of the 
graduating class will see a prophecy of their own career. 

Mr. Hubbard says : “ To my thinking the most rigorous brain work of 
the world is done in the ranks of our profession. And then our work con- 
cerns the highest of all temporal interests : property, reputation, the peace 
of families, liberty, life even, the foundation of society, the jurisprudence of 
the world, and as a recent event has shown, the arbitration and peace of 
nations. The world accepts the work, but forgets the workers. The waste 
hours of Lord Bacon and Sergeant Talfourd were devoted to letters, and 
each is infinitely better remembered for his mere literary diversions than for 
his long and laborious professional work The cheap caricatures of Dickens 
on the profession will outlive, I fear, in the popular memory, the judgments 
of Chief Justice Marshall, for the latter were not clownish burlesques, but 
only masterpieces of reason and jurisprudence. The victory gained by the 
Counsel of the Seven Bishops was worth infinitely more to the people of 
England than all the triumphs of the Crimean. But one Lord Cardigan led 
a foolishly brilliant charge against a Russian battery at Balaklava, and be- 
came immortal. Who led the charge of the Seven Great Confessors of the 
highest church against the English Crown at Westminster Hall ? You must 
go to your books to answer. They were not on horseback. They wore 
gowns, not epaulettes. The truth is we are like the little insects that in the 
unseen depths of the ocean lay the coral foundations of uprising islands. 
In the end come the solid land, the olive and the vine, the habitations of 
man, the arts and industries of life, the havens of the sea, and ships riding 
at anchor. But the busy tribes which laid the beams of a continent in a 
dreary waste are entombed in their work, and forgotten in their tombs.” 

And further he continues, “ We may justly console ourselves with the 
reflection that we belong to a profession which above all others shapes and 
fashions the institutions in which we live, and which, in the language of a 
great statesman, 4 is as ancient as the magistracy, as noble as virtue, as 
necessary as justice ’ — a profession, I venture to add, which is generous 
and fraternal above all others, and in which living merit is appreciated in its 
day, according to its desert, and by none so quickly and so ungrudgingly as 
by those who are its professional contemporaries and its competitors in the 
same field. We have our rivalries — who else has more ? — but they seldom 
produce jealousies. We have our contentions — who else has so many ? — but 
they seldom produce enmities. The old Saxons used to cover their fires on 
every hearth at the sound of the evening curfew. In like manner, but to a 
better purpose, we also cover at each nightfall the embers of each day’s 
struggle and strife. We never defer our amnesties till after death, and have 
less occasion therefore than some others to deal in post mortem bronzes and 
marbles. So much we may say without arrogance of ourselves — so much of 
our noble profession. No better proof and illustration can be found than 
in the life just closed f — a life clear and clean in its aims ; full of busy and 
useful labours ; void, I dare believe, of offence toward God and man, and 
crowned in its course with that three-fold Scriptural blessing — length of days 
and riches and honour.” 

C. D. 

• L. N. p. 25. 

f William Hungerford. 



4 McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. [March ist, 

(College ftSUirltl. 



McGill. 

Undergraduates’ Literary Society. 

Feb. 2nd. — Reading -, Mr. R. C. Kirkpatrick. 

Subject for discussion — “ College life and its accessories.” 

Speakers — Messrs. Livingstone, J. K.Unsworth, T.W.Pedley, J.R.Murray, 
C. E. Bland, and W. Climie. 

Feb. 9th. — Reading, Mr, E. Munro. 

Subject for Debate — “ Resolved that Capital Punishment should be 
abolished.” 

Affirmative — Messrs. G. C. Wright, D. A. McRae and J. K. Unsworth. 
Negative — Messrs. A. A. Mackay, K. Cameron, and W. S. Kennedy. 
Feb. 1 6th. — Reading, Mr. Lochhead. 

Subject for Debate — “ Resolved that Luxury is more productive of Crime 
than Poverty.” 

Affirmative — Messrs. Climie, Turner and Wright. 

Negative — Messrs. G. F. Calder, W. Saunders, and R.A.E. Greenshields. 
Feb. 23rd. — Essay , Mr. J. R. Murray. 

Reading, Mr. Wm. Patterson. 

Subject for Discussion — “ The Canadian Franchise.” 

Speakers — Messrs. Climie, Pedley (J.W ), Lochhead, Colquhoun and Fyles. 

It is rumoured that the Undergraduates’ Literary Society are about to 
have a public debate within the next few weeks. The matter will probably 
be discussed at the regular meeting on Friday, 2nd March, so that we 
advise members interested in the matter to be present. # 

The practices of the Glee Club become more and more successful each 
week. It is a pity that the club was not started earlier in the year as there 
will haidly be sufficient time to prepare for a concert this Spring. 

The examinations for the Sutherland Medal, open to the primary students 
in Medicine, will be held on the 17th of March, and those for the Morris 
Scholarship on the 10th. prox. 

Foot-Ball. 

The annual meeting of the foot-ball club was held in the Reading Room 
on the 14th. inst. The attendance was not as large as could be desired. 

The action of the club representatives in reference to the formation of 
the Quebec Rugby Union was approved of. The following were elected 
officers for the session ’83-’84 : 

President — M r. J. H. Rogers, (re-elected.) 

Captain— Mr. H. S. Hamilton, (re-elected ) 

Treasurer — Mr. J. L. Hislop. 

Secretary— Mr. J. K. Unsworth. 

Committee — Messrs. J. Elder, A. Shearer, Geo. Rogers, Geo C. Wright, 

A. W. Smith. 

The foot-ball team have been photographed at Notman’s. Copies may 
be had at his studio, Bleury street. 

Annual Dinners. 

The Undergraduates in Applied Science held their annual dinner at the 
Richelieu, on the ist of February. Shortly after eight o’clock, about 
thirty-three embryo engineers having assembled, the chief led the way to the 
base of operations, and in a few moments, all were working as if their pro- 
fessional reputation depended on their ability in making extracts from the 
tables, and taking out quantities. Even the freshmen gave ample evidence 
of the thorough knowledge of precipitates. Some of them appeared quite ! 
familiar with the management of -, while their facility in making cuttings, 
levelling, &c., could only have been the result of concentrated application. 

In time, however, the zeal of the most energetic began to flag, and the 
engineer in charge considered it advisable to introduce counterbraces, and 
proceed with the less arduous part of the programme. 

The representatives from “L’Ecole Polytechnique,” “ Medicine,” “ Arts,” 
and “ Law,” strengthened by their appropriate remarks the tie which 
“ Light as air though strong as iron ” binds the Sister Faculties together. 
Between midnight and the first of the “ sma’ hours ” the session adjourned, 
with the good wishes of all for the health of “ mine host ” who had con- 
tributed >0 materially to the enjoyment of the evening and the advancement 
of Science. 

The following gentlemen responded eloquently to the toasts with which 
their names are coupled : 

“ The Queen and Governor-General.” 

“ Alma Mater Mr. Jas. McEvoy. 

Sister Universities ” — Mr. Garneau. 

“ The Dean and Professors ” — Mr. Jno. McDonald. 

“Our Graduates” — Messrs. C. W. Trenholme, B.A., J. H. Burland, 

B. App.Sc 

*• Class ’83, ’—Mr. D. B. Dowling. 

“ Sister Faculties ” 

“ Medicine Mr. A. McLeod. 

« ^ rts M — M r . R. A. E. Greenshields. 

“ Law” — Mr. Dickson. 



“Reading Room Committee” — Mr. J. Roy. 

“ Ex. Classmates ” — Mr. Stevens. 

“Sporting Interests” — Mr. J. L. Hislop. 

“ The Press ” — Messrs. R A.E. Greenshields and Jos. Mignault. 

“ Our Host ” — The Proprietor. 

“The Ladies”— Mr. A* Weir. 

Songs were sung by Messrs. Dagron, Dowling, Lesage, and Trenholme. 

The Annual Dinner of the Junior Class in Arts took place in the Richelieu 
Hotel on Tuesday, February 6th. After full justice had been done to the 
excellent menu, the following programme was carried out : 

1. The Queen, “ God save the Queen.” 

2. Canada and the Governor-General, Mr. A. W. Gerrie. 

Song. — Mr. R. A. Kennedy. 

3. United States, Mr. G. Mass6. 

Recitation. — Mr. J. K. Unsworth. 

4. Alma Mater, Mr. J. H. Marceau. 

5. Sister Universities, Mr. J. K. Unsworth. 

6. Professors, Mr. W. H. Turner. 

7. Applied Science, ..Mr. J. Hislop. 

8. Medicine, Mr. W. Christie. 

Recitation. — Mr. A. W. Gerrie. 

9. Law, Mr. A. A. MacKay. 

10. Theology, Mr. J. W. Pedley. 

Song. — Mr. J. H. Marceau. 

11. Seniors, Mr. J. R. Murray. 

12. Sophomores, Mr. W. Lochhead. 

13. Freshmen, Mr. E. D. F. Holden 

Duet. — Messrs. J. Marceau and G. Masse. 

14. Undergraduates’ Literary Society Mr. K. Cameron. 

Song. — Mr. G. Mass< 5 . 

15. Sports, Mr. R. A Kennedy. 

16. The Press, Mr. R. C. Kirkpatrick. 

Song. — Mr. A. A. Mac Kay. 

17. Our Benefactors, Mr. G. C. Wright. 

18. The Ladies, Mr. Mabon. 

19. The Class of ’84, Mr. Geo. Rogers. 

The Committee was composed of Mr. Geo. Rogers President; Mr. 
Geo. C. Wright, and Mr. Christie. The President of the year fulfilled the 
duties of Chairman in a very able manner, and many of the speeches during 
! the evening were of a very high character. In replying for the Sports Mr. 

| Kennedy made an amusing and exhaustive address. Mr. Unsworth 
treated the company to an original parody entitled “ The Charge of the 
Heavy Brigade,” while Mr. MacKay also sang a very amusing and original 
I parody of one of the college songs in a masterly way. After a very 
enjoyable repast the company broke up about half-past one. 

The annual dinner of the Sophomore Class, Arts, took place at 
Peloquin’s Hotel, Back River, on Friday February. 9th., the very day upon 
which Prof. Wiggins predicted that a great storm would burst upon Mon- 
treal. The Sophomores, however, disregarding these predictions and 
placing their trust rather in Vennor, left McGill College gate at 6 45 p.m., 
singing “ Good-Bye, Ladies ! ” to the boys who were standing around. The 
evening was clear and bright, but the roads were somewhat heavy, owing to 
the storm of the previous day. The party arrived at Peloquin’s about 8 
o’clock, where a dinner awaited them. The cold bracing air, and perhaps 
the want of food for some time, had given all a keen appetite. After the 
despatch of this part of the programme, the party adjourned to another 
room, when Mr. Lochhead, the President of the year, took the chair and 
proposed the following toasts, which were responded to by the gentlemen 
whose names are coupled with them : — 

“ Canada and the Governor-General,” by Mr. G. A. Thompson ; “ United 
States,” by Messrs J. A. McLean and A. McArthur ; “ The Professors,” by 
Mr. M. Watson ; “ Theology,” by Mr. J. A. McFarlane ; “ Medicine,” by Mr. 
W. G. Stewart ; “ Science.” by Mr. Jno.Hislop ; “ Law,” by Mr. Wm. Climie ; 

“ The Seniors,” by Mr. R. A. E. Greenshields ; “ The Juniors,” by Mr. R. 
A. Kennedy ; « The Freshmen,” by Mr. E. D. F. Holden ; “ Sister Univer- 
sities,” by Mr. J. H. MacVicar ; “ The Undergraduates’ Literary Society ” 
by Mr. G. F. Calder; “ The Press,” by Mr. A. H. M. Colquhoun ; “ The 
Ladies,’ by Mr. G. A. Blair.” On Mr. R. A. E, Greenshields proposing the 
toast to the Sophomore year, the chairman responded on behalf of the class. 

The following gentlemen also added to the pleasure of the evening by 
singing songs in their usual efficient manner -.—Messrs. Budden, Stewart 
Thompson, Watson, McFarlane and MacVicar. 

On the conclusion of the programme, the party returned to the city after 
having spent a happy and sociable evening. 

On Friday evening last, the Arts Freshmen held their annual dinner at 
the Richelieu Hotel. I he dinner was served at 8 o’clock and was attended 
by about twenty-six gentlemen, including representatives from each of the 
Senior Years in Arts and from the Faculty of Applied Science. Mr. E. D. 



1883 -] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



5 



F. Holden, President of the Year, presided. After a choice bill of fare had 
been fully served and as well enjoyed, 

By students, blithe, who midst they dine, 

Do many classic jokes define. 

the company retired to the vicinity of a piano which had been placed at 
their disposal, when they sang 

In tones alternate, mild and strong, 

Many a noble college song. 

Mr. S. A. Thomas played the accompaniments. When the vocal appara- 
tus had thus been made flexible, the table once more became the centre 
of attraction, and the drinking of a long list of toasts was begun. The first 
was that in honour of the Queen, which was answered by the National 
Anthem. Then followed the toast of the Governor- General and Local 
Governor, responded to by Mr. C. M. Farlinger in a speech adorned with 
many pictures of our country’s future greatness, and that of the Dominion 
and Local Governments, replied to by Mr. F. M. Hibbard. Mr. Yates, 
to the toast of Alma Mater, made a very apropos and loyal response, which 
called forth a hearty cheer for Old McGill. The Dean and Professors, 
after being compared with those of the European Colleges, were ably sup- 
ported by the Rev A. Internoscia, who replied to the toast in a speech 
in English and Italian. After the toast of the Sister Universities had been 
drunk and responded to very suitably by Mr. A. B. Clements, the Sister 
Faculties — Medicine and Law — were upheld in well ordered speeches by 
those who soon 

Would be disciples of Apollo mild, 

Or follow Themis in tier tortuous course, 

viz., by Messrs. Bell and Claxton. Mr. D. B. Dowling, in replying to the toast 
of Applied Science, said that the degree of B.A.was often more valued before 
its attainment than after, but that it none the less deserved to be gained. 
The toast of Theology was then drank with honours and answered by Mr. 
T. MacDougal in a few well chosen remarks. Then followed the toasts of 
Seniors, Juniors, and Sophomores, responded to in eloquent speeches by 
the representatives of these three years, Messrs. England, Blackader, and 
Watson. Mr. England, in referring to the harmony that pervaded the several 
classes in M cGill, said that it was exceptional, and very seldom so unani- 
mously maintained in other Universities of similar standing. Mr. Pedley 
replied to the toast of the Literary Society in a speech, which, were it 
acted upon, would largely increase the present attendance of that society. 
The toast of the Glee Club was next proposed, to which Mr. Dewar 
responded, holding forth to that new but indispensable institution, the 
most brilliant prospects for the future. Mr. Kenny, in answer to the toast 
of College Sports, insinuated, and not without a good deal of truth, that 
more interest seemed to be taken in talking of the sports than of thoroughly 
practising them. No toast of the evening was received with greater 
enthusiasm than that in honour of Our Benefactors, to which Mr. Rodioc 
made an appropriate reply. The Press and the Ladies then received 
worthy attention and were supported by speeches from Messrs. Wm. 
Patterson and C. H. Livingstone, respectively. Mr. England of the 
Graduating Class, then proposed the toast of the Freshmen, which was 
drunk by the representatives present, and eloquently responded to by Mr. 
E. I). F. Holden. This brought the long list to an end. The programme 
was varied at fitting intervals by vocal and instrumental music furnished by 
Messrs. Thomas, Holden, Livingstone, Dewar, Swabey, and Clements. 
After having spent a most enjoyable evening, and one which will not soon 
pass from the memories of those present, the company at about 2.00 a.m. 
began to break up by mutual consent and wend their several homeward 
ways. 

A practical joke of an extensive character was recently played upon a 
Freshman in Medicine. It appears that some trouble had arisen between 
the said Freshman and his boarding mistress, on account of the continuous 
bedlam which the former kept up in the house. After a time the student 
was obliged to vacate as the lady asserted that all her boarders were leaving 
in consequence of his misbehaviour. The Freshie’s friends thinking they had 
fit material for a good joke procured the services of a law student, who 
caused a bogus Writ of Summons and Declaration to be served upon the 
innocent. The feelings of the young man upon the receipt of “ Victoria, 
by the Grace of God, &c.,” were not of the pleasantest character, especially 
as the summons concluded with a prayer for pecuniary condemnation of two 
hundred and fifty dollars. Much sympathy was evinced by his numerous 
and kind friends in this time of his distress. Finally a member of one of the 
leading law firms in the city was consulted at his office and the document 
was immediately declared to be a fraud. 

It is said that the effect of this joke has not been without benefit to the 
self-contained and condescending victim. 

Owing to a misunderstanding in the appointing of a representative, McGill 
was not represented at the dinner of the Laval Medical Undergraduates, 
held recently at the Richelieu. We believe it was a very enjoyable enter- 
tainment. 

General. 

An attempt is being made to found a school of Art at Princeton. 

Mr. Ryan, the well-known boxing master, of Manchester, is getting up 
a class at Hanover. 



It is expected that a company of Princeton students will produce a play 
sometime during the spring. 

The rumor of the resignation of Dr. McCosh is without foundation. 

Harvard College Observatory has become the centre of astronomical in- 
formation for the United States. — Ex . 

Johns Hopkins University has secured Dr. Bluntchli’s library, which is 
the best collection of works on international law in the world. — Ex . 

In the number of college secret societies the following institutions excel ; 
University of Michigan, with over thirteen; Cornell, ten; Yale, nine; 
Columbia, eight ; Union, six, and Harvard, three. — Ex. 

The University of Vermont has received a bequest of $1 15,000. A hand- 
some gymnasium is to be erected. A bronze statute of Lafayette, who laid 
the cornerstone of the University, is soon to be unveiled on the campus. — 
Ex. 

President Angell has just issued his report of Michigan University. The 
number of students is 1,534, second only to that of Harvard, which leads 
with over 1,600. Of Ann Arbor’s 1,534 students, 184 are women.— Ex. 

Mr. George Darwin, who has been made Professor of Astronomy in 
Cambridge University, is said to possess more than his celebrated father’s 
versatility, all his father’s love of thorough work, and no little share of his 
father’s power of exposition. Though he is only 36 years of age he is a 
Fellow of the Royal Society. He is not merely an astronomer — he is a geo- 
logist a biologist, and a chemist, and is distinguished in all. — Ex. 

There is an Oxford story^ of a solicitor, who, in trying for a degree in law, 
was ‘ ploughed ’ upon a text-book of which he was himself the author. But 
the recent examination for the call to the bar has furnished even a more 
startling illustration of the futility of examinations as a test of practical 
knowledge. Two of the disappointed candidates are men who have already 
attained eminence at the Indian bar, where the practice is substantially the 
same as in England and where the standard of the bar is notoriously but 
little inferior. One of these gentlemen has for some years had a professional 
income oft^i 5,000 per annum, and the other holds a judicial appointment ; 
and yet neither, according to the sapient decision of an examination, could 
be trusted to conduct a case !— Truth . 

9 

Michigan University has 1,415 students in all its departments. 

Mr. Tennyson, Mr. Gladstone, and other distinguished men intend to be 
present at the performance in Greek of the “ Ajax ” of Sophocles, at 
Cambridge University. 

Dr. Martin, the famous Professor of Biology in the John Hopkins, Uni- 
versity, is only twenty-eight years old. 

The lady students of Ann Arbor have determined to publish a paper, the 
Amulet , in the interest of the co-educational system. 

The Board of Trustees of Columbia, with the exception of President 
Bernard, are unanimous in their condemnation of the co-educational 
system. 

It is shewn by the last census that there are in the United States nearly 
five millions of persons unable to read, and over seven millions unable to 
write. 

Ridley Hall, near Cambridge, built at a cost of over $200, 00c, for the 
purpose of training young men in the evangelical principles of the Church 
of England, has been formally opened. 

It is stated that for the first time in the history of Yale College more than 
one half of the Sophomore class are professing Christians. 

One New Haven firm sells 120,000 cigarettes a month to Yale College 
students, or for the ten months of the year that the “ men” are in town, 

1, 200,000, at an average of little more than half a cent apiece, a total of 
about $6,000 a year. The same firm receives $15,000 yearly for soda and 
mineral waters sold to the students, and a monthly cigar account with the 
collegians reaches $500. And this is the record of but one firm. 

Amherst has lost her gymnasium and also other buildings by fire. Loss 
timated at $185,000. — Ex. 

The editor of Williams College Athcmcutn is H. A. Garfield, son of the 
late President. 

The Moon is the name of a weekly newspaper published by the inmates 
of the insane asylum on Ward’s Island, New York. 

A coffin was discovered while some excavations in the nave of St. 
Patrick’s Cathedral, Dublin were being made, containing a box which held 
the skulls of Dean Swift and Stella, and a glass bottle in which a manuscript 
was sealed which it is thought may contain something of interest. 

Cambridge has only 835 Freshmen this year. — Ex. 

The Oxford undergraduates are going to start an ‘ Oxford Magazine ’ 
next term, which is apparently to follow on the lines of the existing “ Cam- 
bridge Review.” 

Dr. Arthur Coleman has been recently appointed by the College Board 
to the Chair of Natural History and Geology, in Victoria University. 



6 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[March ist. 



The general catalogue of Princeton, just issued, shows that the alumni of 
the college number about 5,500 of which 3,000 are living. A hundred and 
eighty-nine have become presidents or professors in colleges. The mortality 
has been greatest among the politicians, least among the clergy. — Ex. 

The Class of 82, Yale, gave $10,000 to the athletic sports The grounds 
of the new Athletic Park are to contain thirty acres. They will contain a 
quarter mile track, lawn tennis courts, base-ball, football, lacrosse, and 
cncket grounds. The grand stand is to cost $5,000 

Two hundred thousand dollars have been subscribed towards a Catholic 
University, to be founded at Chicago. — Ex. 

Boston L niversity is building a gymnasium for the accommodation of its 
lady students. — Blackburnian. 

A Students Loan Fund” has been instituted at Central College? 
Fayette. & 

Miss Helen Gladstone, daughter of the premier, has accepted the vice- 
supenntendency of Newnham College, Eng. — Blackburnian . 

It was stated at a public meeting in Edinburgh last week that a bequest 
0 ft I 5 > 000 t° the University had been revoked in consequence of Profes- 
sor Rutherford’s experiments in vivisection. — Ex. 

A gift of $250,000 is reported from the citizens of Cambridge, to Harvard 
College, for new dormitories, the rent of each of which shall not exceed $co 
a year. — Ex. 

Mr. Robertson Smith, the great biblical scholar, has accepted the profes- 
sorship of Arabic in the University of Cambridge, vacated by the death of 
Prof. Palmer. — Badger. 

The Prince of Wales’ two elder sons are being prepared for the next 
session at Oxford. 

The Duke of Devonshire, Chancellor of Cambridge University, has given 
.£100 to the Girton College Extension Fund. 

The Mayor of Manchester presided at a meeting held lately for the pur- 
pose of establishing a fund to establish a Natural History Museum in con- 
nection with Owens College. Towards the £50,000, which will be needed, 
about ,£20,000 has been subscribed. — III. London N etas. 

A representation of the “Ajax,” as given lately at Cambridge University, 
was given on the 3rd ult. in the College Hall, Eton. The original scenery 
and music were employed with excellent effect, and the performance was 
wholly successful ; there was a large and distinguished audience. 

An influential meeting was held in Denbigh lately under the presidency 
of the Mayor, to consider the question of Welsh education. Resolutions 
affirming that a Governmental offer of £4,000 yearly for Welsh education 
be thankfully received, and that Denbigh, in salubrity, healthiness, centrality, ! 
railway facilities and scenery, presented a most eligible site for a North 
Wales College, were carried, and a large comm it t^ was formed to carry out 
the work. A gentleman sent authority to contribute £1,000 to facilitate 
the scheme, which has received much popular and local support. 

The will (dated July 30, 1873) of Mr. Francis Maitland Balfour, late of 
Trinity College, Cambridge, who died on July 19th last, on the Glacier of 
Treyney, Courmayeur, Italy, was proved on the 23rd ult. The value of the 
personal estate amounting to over £30,000. The testator bequeaths 
;£i,ooo to Dr. Michael Foster, Projector in Physiology at Trinity College, 
Cambridge, to be applied by him in the promotion and encouragement of 
the Study of Physiology. 



President Porter, of Yale, announces himself as opposed to the lecture 
system of education — at least early in the college course. 

The Johns Hopkins University conducts five journals devoted to original 
investigation in various fields. 

Our friend the Wollestock Gazette seems to be getting into general trouble 
on account of its pugnacious criticisms. Some spiteful people might wish 
to remind the editors of an old proverb about people that live in glass houses, 
but then these people must not forget that criticism is useful for more than 
one purpose. 

Why will Don Quixote write so often in the ’ Varsity ? The editors ought 
to break through their rules and publish this very eccentric individual’s 
name, for it deserves to be handed down to posterity. 

The February number of the Queen's College Journal is largely taken up 
with religious matters. 

The Gazette is agitating for the establishment of a Faculty of Law in Dal- 
housie. The Science Faculty has just been abolished, because very few 
students availed themselves of the course. 

We thank the Argosy for its kind welcome to us. As the number of our 
students is largely recruited from the Maritime Provinces, we feel an especial 
interest in the exchanges which come to us from that part of the world, and 
in the Argosy perhaps not the least. In criticising our editorial on the 
question of admitting women to McGill, the writer seems to have missed 
the main point, probably because he forgot that we were dealing with a 
particular case. We did not mean to contend that we must wait until we 
arrive at perfection in educating men and then turn our attention to the 
women. The ground which we took was that in McGill there are several 
improvements urgently necessary but which cannot be effected from want of 
funds, and that these ought to be attended to before any large sum was ex- 
pended in admitting women to the University. These improvements if they 
were effected would by no means bring us an educational millenium ; they 
would simply place the College abreast of the times. The question unfor- 
tunately had to be treated as one of dollars and cents, and we are glad to 
see by the daily papers that our view of the matter has been adopted by the 
Corporation of the University. 

The handsomest of our exchanges is perhaps the King's College Record . 

It contains much interesting matter, but we are afraid the exchange editor 
is not severe enough in his criticisms. 

Rouge et Noir is a small paper published at long intervals at Trinity Col- 
lege, Toronto. The general appearance of the paper is good, but we think 
that greater things might be expected from the editorial staff since they 
must have considerable time to prepare for each issue. It is not a fact that 
our staff supports literary professors, doctors, and lawyers. There are 
neither doctors nor lawyers connected with the Gazette , while, the insinu- 
ation that there are too many cooks does not, we are sorry to say, apply in 
the least. The writer’s experience in College journalism is probably small, 
else he would not have fallen into this mistake. 

We have received the following .— The Portfolio , St. Mary's College 
Journal (2), The Acadia Athenceum , The Dartmouth (2), The Dalhousie 
Gazette , Acta Victorian a, The IVollesteok Gazette , Educational Record , 

’ Varsity (4), L'Etincelle, Catalogue of the University of Vermont , The 
Queen's College Journal, The Argosy , King's College Record, Rouge et Noir , 
Morrin College Review , A strum Alberti , Harvard Advocate. 



Selwyn College, Cambridge, was formally opened last October, when the 
Bishop of Ely installed the Hon. and Rev. Arthur Temple Lyttleton, M.A. 
(Trinity College, Cambridge,) as Master A luncheon was afterwards held 
in the temporary hall. The college has been founded to perpetuate the 
noble name and labours of the late Bishop of Lichfield, and includes pro- 
vision for the education of the sons of cleigymen and others, to fill posts of 
missionary work whether at home or abroad. The present block of build- 
ings will accommodate sixty-four students, and thirty will be in residence 
this term. The expenses incurred amount to ,£33,000. 

Presiding at the opening meeting of the winter session of Liverpool Uni- 
versity College last Saturday, Lord Derby remarked on the difference be- 
tween the functions of it and London University — the one seeking to test 
knowledge, the other to impart it. Speaking of medical science, his Lord- 
ship said we now lived longer than our ancestors, and lived more intensely, 
which was mainly the result of a better study and the laws of health. Mr. 
Matthew Arnold gave the introductory address, the main feature of which 
was to insist on the advisability and importance of good middle-class schools. 
He urged that the State might make some such provision for these schools 
as was make in Germany. — III. London News. 

In an editorial in one of our leading college journals last month, we were 
surprised to see the expression u the more preferable way ” used. Probably 
the writer was labouring under excitement at the time. 

Dalhousie College has recently been left $100,000 by the will of the late 
Alexander McLeod. We offer our congratulations. 



get meat the lectures. 



A TRAGEDY. 

A cat. 

On wall, 

Brickbat, — 

That’s all. 

A young man who keeps a collection of locks of hair of his lady friends 
calls them his hair-breadth escapes. ’ 

An amateur editor has made a fortune by his pen. His father died of 
grief after reading one of his editorials, and left him $150,000. 

Over the garden wall, 

Apple trees big and tall, 

No apples as yet so hard to get, 

And you may bet, 

I’ll never forget 

That night the dog on me was set, 

Over the garden wall. 

— Madisonensis. 

11 Les Passages dc Venus." — A jocose Frenchman has published the first 
number of a new astronomical journal under the above title. The journal 
explains the method of observing the transit, and was sold about the streets 
of Paris for 1 sou. The next number will appear June 8th, 2004 ! Argosy. 

“ Talking of Sidney Smith’s cool idea of ‘ taking off his flesh and sitting in 



i88 3 .] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



7 



his bones,’ as being the highest degree of comfort on a hot day — I can 
do better than that,” said old Floppertop. “ Impossible ! How? ” “ Why,” 
said Floppertop gravely, “ I’d knock the marrow out, and have a draught 
through.” 

Song of the Salvation Army : 

“ If you can’t get in at the golden gate, 

Get over the garden wall.” 

With regard to Problem VI. which we gave in our last, the subject of 
which was a man flying from a bull, one of our mathematical men writes to 
suggest that the curve described by the man and the bull was a curve of 
pursuit . After several hours study of mathematical books which may be 
found in the library by any of our readers who may be desirous of following 
the matter up, the joke became apparent to us. 

McMeekin’s name will be absent from these columns : — on its holidays 
during the rest of the term. — Much obliged Mac’. 

One or two of the finals wanted their photos’ taken, “ swinging on a 
cobweb,” (a la Fairy Queen), but as Notman was just out of the necessary 
cobweb, they had to content themselves with the regulation dislocation — 
into — the obturator foramen — position and the after-ether smile. 

THE PCX ESCAPES. 

St. Patrick of old, in destroying the snakes 
Which infested the soil of the Emerald Isle, 

Left uninjured a thing that more horror awakes, 

That’s more terribly feared and more horribly vile. 

And what was it? you ask, with a faltering voice, 

How left old St. Patrick his mission undone? 

Alas! my good friend, he could have but one choice, 

*Twas the reptile he never could harm, ’twas the Pun. 

Cool your tea with a spoonful of sorbet. “See that Smythe?” 

Imagine the electrical effect of the following sentence, delivered with 
calm severity and accompanied by a graceful wave of the hand, on the 
dormant mind of the average law student. “Gentlemen, when the 
armies of conflicting nations stand range 1 for battle, the mask of civiliza- 
tton drops and each man returns to the garb of his primitive barbarism.” 

Notice to the trade. — Through the liberality of Professor B , the 

librarian of McGill College will be able to dispose, at a nominal price, of a 
valuable work, showing the most recent ‘ cuttings ’ and latest patterns of 
London and Paris fashions. It has been specially ordered for the purpose 
and tenders are requested. 

The Montreal School of Art^and Design, open to ladies, will give a 
young girl a few “ wrinkles ” long before they are required. 

Our waste basket last month was — A Vale of Tears. 

APROPOS OF FASH ! ONABI.E TROWsERS. 

There was a young fellow from Sligo. 

Laid up with acute interrigo, 

He looked at his new breeches. 

Then took out some stitches. 

And said Hcec cut fons ct origo. 

“ Can it be true,” said a lady friend to Miss , one of the Kingston 

lady students, “ that you have actually dissected a man ? ” “ Oh, yes,” 

was the reply, “but it was an old man.” — Canada Medical and Surgical 
Journal . 

We regret that J. G.’s nurse ry rime, “Under the Mistletoe,” was 
received too late for competition for the prize offered by this journal. 
Final men in Medicine can readily imagine the poetical force he would 
bring to bear on the above subject. It would undoubtedly have taken the 
i to 40 had it arrived in time. 

Note. — The subject of the enigma which appeared in our last was a 
postage stamp. 

Deluded People Think 

That the students have access to the Medical library. 

That the Nervous System is an easy subject. 

That there are comfortable seats in the .Medical Building. 

That there are not many preparations of opium 

That there is no Ammoniacal decomposition in the medical lavatory. 
That the Primaries are not working hard. 

That the present Primaries will work hard next year. 

That there is scented soap in the dissecting room. 

That there is a comfortable waiting-room in the medical building. 

That there is an efficient janitor for the medical building. 

That our postal delivery is perfectly safe. 

That “ the chicken ” will soon take his degree. 

That Wellington wouldn’t touch beer. 

That M. does not ramble in his lectures, 

That Leyden Jar should be spelt Latent Gar. 

That Moses V. is a bofn poet. 



Examination Papers for the Degree of M.D., C.M. 

Some questions which might be asked a little later on in the month. 
Primary Subjects. 

Anatomy . 

1. How many toes are there on each foot? 

2. What goes through the Foramen Magnum ? 

3. Correct the spelling of the following words : Condoile, Jeenial, 

Arettenoid. 

Materia Medica . 

1. Give the contra-indications for the colorless non-crystallizable alkaloids 
obtained from plants whose habitat is over 7,253 feet above sea level. 

2. Describe minutely the action of an overdose of Unguentum Hydrar- 
gyri upon the Pediculus. 

3. Under what circumstances would the following prescription prove 
most efficacious : 

{£ Pulv. Myristacre gr. iii. 

Cort. Limonis gr. x. 

Succ. Limonis f 3 i. 

Spiritus Frumenti f 3 iii. 

Aquae Ferventis ad f 3 vi. 

Misce et Adde. 

Sacchae. All ad lib. 

Fiat Haustus Statim Sumendus. 

Physiology. 

1. The Head. 

2* Bilirubin. 

3. Vis Vitae. 

Chemistry . 

1. What is the color of white Precip : tate ? Why ? 

2. How many pounds of Fe S and H^ S O4 are required to empty by 
upward displacement, a lecture room whose atmosphere is saturated with 
Surgery? How would you conduct the experiment? 

3. How many times can a man smile before his Gravity becomes Specific ? 

Practical A n atom y . 

1. Which side does this Stapes belong to ? 

2. Shew me the surface marking for the Jejunum. 

3. Describe the structures cut, in a section made from the lobe of the 
right ear to the middle third of the 4th metacarpal bone of the left foot, 
the left leg being strongly abducted and flexed. 



gevscmals. 

Robert Logan, M.D., who received his degree here in ’80, has passed the 
examination for the M.R.C.S., Eng. 

James A. Grant. B.A., M.D., (’82), has passed the L.R.C.P., Lond. 
We tender him our congratulations. 

Louis Robitaille, M.D., (’6o), brother of Dr. Robitaille, Lieutenant- 
Governor of Quebec, has been appointed a Dominion Senator. 

Tupper, ’71, is son of the Minister of Railways. 

Me Fee, ’80, and Coutlee ’73. are practising hard in Winnipeg. 

Wellwood, ’78, is pastor of a tlniving church in Minnedosa, Manitoba. 

McFadyan, ’78, has received a call to the Congregational Church in 
Kingston, Ont. 

Donald, ’78, Tucker, ’81. Morin, ’82, are doing excellent work in the 
city schools. 

Taylor, Rev. G. M., ’75, is acting Principal of the St. James College, 
Richmond. 

Church, Hon. L. R , ’57, Medicine, has permanently settled in this city. 
From his position, experience and interest in the College, he would be a 
valuable addition to the governing bodies of the University. 

Kennedy, B. S., ’73, has been appointed Prof, of Nat. Science in King’s* 
College, N.S., in place of Spencer ’74, Prof, of Geology in the University of 
Missouri. % 

Bell, C. E., ’61, of the Geological Survey, has been investigating this 
season in the MacKenzie River Region. 

Greenshields. ’69, and Greenshields ’74, now compose the firm of S. 
Greenshields, Son & Co., so long and favourably known in the dry-goods 
trade. 

Davidson, ’64, and Doherty, ’76, are members of the Royal Commission 
which is enquiring into the management ot the schools of Montreal. 

Graham, B. C. L., ’78, is manager of the Williams Manufacturing Co. 

Hicks, ’64, is recruiting in the Southern States. 

Morie, ’79, who married one of the belles of the city during the Xmas, 
holidays, has a large and lucrative practice in Detroit, Mich. 



8 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[March ist, 



(CovvcsponcUuce. 

To the Editors of the McGill Gazette. 

Dear Sirs, 

I should like to bring before the Faculties of Arts and Applied Science as 
well as the students of the same, the obtrusive fact that the present system 
of wearing gowns is by no means a desirable one. I am surprised that the 
students have not hitherto spoken on this subject through the Gazette. 
But many have the faculty — sometimes fortunately for them — of readily 
becoming accustomed to an inconvenient custom ; evidently it has been so 
with this of wearing gowns. To the Freshman it is as disagreeable as it is 
new ; but not being in a position to dispute the regulation, he accepts the 
inevitable, gets his gown, and carries about at any rate, a lighter purse. In 
the succeeding years he wears one because he has it, and if toward the end 
of his course he gives a thought to the absurdity of the custom, “ There’s 
no use bothering about it now.” To the students, therefore, 1 would like 
to present the case as it presents itself to me, fully confident that if they 
consider a moment, they will agree with me ; to the Faculties also, judging 
that as they have shown themselves by no means slow to move in a desir- 
able direction, attention has only to be called to it to have the regulation 
erased from the books. 

First then, it seems to me to be useless. We can imagine cases in which 
it might be of service. If it were worn on the streets, it might > as the sign 
of a student, be an aid to discipline, but it is not. If different gowns, as 
different uniforms among the different regiments of an army, were worn by 
different classes, there might be a desirable imitation fostered. I can see 
a reason why some preachers in the city wear them, for they make more 
graceful, perhaps, an ungainly figure, but students are not posing as 
speakers. A gown is neither brain itself nor brain stimulant ; it hinders 
rather than helps one in taking lectures ; Molson Hall loses none of its 
terrors when we are armed with a gown : in fact or seriously, turn where I 
will, I fail to find any imaginable use for it. 

I know that just here it might be urged that there are some things which, 
though not of practical use, we are glad to retain, because of the inspiring 
associations which gather around them ; and some grand talking might be 
indulged in, about the esprit de corps that gowns foster. But that is no 
argument. Esprit de corps can flourish outside the aegis of a gown. 
Medical students are gownless, and we never doubt their esprit de corps. 

There is another and very practical objection — they are an expense. A 
gown costs from three to six dollars, not a great sum indeed, but very few 
come to McGill who have overflowing pockets. It is well for her that most 
of her sons earn the very money which supports them during their course. 
We cannot wonder, therefore, that such grumble at paying six dollars for 
what is worth nothing to them. 

I have heard but a few days since, that some years ago the decision of 
“ gown or no gown,” was in the hands of the students and they voted to 
retain it. We do not bless them for doing so, and I feel assured if the 
Faculties were to give the same opportunity to the present students, they 
would heartily say, what I humbly maintain, that the 

“Gown Must Go.” 

[We disagree entirely with the substance of this letter. We had imagined 
that this worn out question had b en settled once and forever, as far as 
McGill is concerned. We do not think that the writer will succeed in 
getting up an agitation on the subject, and we are confident that the 
former decision of the students would be almost unanimously upheld were 
another vote taken. — Eds.] 



' goctrij. 

TO A LADY. 

Beloved friend, I weep because your heart I’ve grieved, 

I called you “ soft.” What then, was I deceived?] 

Should I have said you’re made of stone, you’re stiff and cold? 

These names sound better, but a lie I should have told. 

Kind soul, I pray you now my hardiness forgive; 

I’ll reverence, love, and trust you while I live, but 
Believe me, if you can, that this it was I meant, 

At once to tell the truth and pay a compliment. 

Lutton. 



THE LOSS OF THE ‘ ASIA.” 

Sept. 1882. 

The autumn day was fair and bright, 

No gloomy cloud obscured the light; 

The deep, blue lake was calm and still, 

No evil omen boded ill, 

As in the port the “ Asia ” lay. 

Prepared to cross the Georgian Bay. 

The wind sprang up and whistled shrill, 

The sail of many a bark to fill. 

White-crested waves played to and fro, 

Which only seemed the more to throw 
A glimmering beauty on the sight. 

So soon to fade in darkest night. 

The fated vessel, deep with freight. 

Steamed outward to the harbour gate ; 

Four score and more warm, beating hearts, 

Upon her decks, with playful arts 
Waved fond farewells, with mirthful glee, 

To friends they never more might see. 

They little thought, as forth they sped — 

The happy bride but newly wed : 

The prattling babe all pure and bright : 

The aged sire so wintry white ; 

That soon, O soon! the wild, wild waves 
Would roll above their lonely graves. 

O ! could they know that, never more 
They’d tread with friends the peacelul shore : 

Nor loved ones clasp in warm embrace, 

At home, that hallowed, sacred place : 

Nor meet again, where praise is given 
To Him who rules in Earth and Heaven. 

How oft we think — had we but known, 

Or could we see what, God alone 
Holds in His hand; we’d happy be; 

Our steps we’d guard : from care be free. 

Futurity we cannot tell; 

Our God knows best, it must be well. 

The fated ship rides on in pride, 

Far out upon the waters wide. 

The storm king shrieks and stirs the deep; 

The billows roll, and foam, and leap, 

Grim Death strides forth : his scythe is seen ; 

A ripe, rich harvest he will glean. 

The vessel plunges in the main ; 

She rights; she rolls; she rights again. 

The helm, strong hands hold with a will. 

A brave, great heart commands with skill, 

A gleam of hope breaks on them soon — 

The storm may cease before 't/s noon. 

Vain hope ! the gale returns with strength ; 

And fury spent, bursts forth at length. 

The angry waves roll high and wide, 

And plunge the ship beneath the tide. 

They gather all their force and might; 

And quench, like wind, a spark of light. 

O cruel winds! O fierce wild waves! 

Ye’ve filled with dear ones, many a grave. 

In vain we weep, in vain we sigh ; 

Ye never deign to hear our cry : 

One voice ye’ll heed — a voice of dread : 

’ Tis God will speak : “ Give up thy dead !” 

Otho Scribbleri/s.” 



i88 3 ] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



9 



gist of Jlciu $00 Us Jicceiuccl. 

( From 22 d January , 1883.) 

United States. — Report of the Chief Signal officer. — 1880 
Hanmann. — Elemente der Mineralogie. 

Dublin University Calendar. — 1883. 

The Primary Triangulation of the United States Lake Survey. 
Monk. — An introduction to Logic. 

Oasey. — A Sequel to the First 6 Books of Euclid. 

Griffin. — The Parabola, Eclipse and Hyperbola. 

Burnside & Panton. — Theory of Equations. 

Dowden. — The Correspondence of Southey & Caroline Bowles. 
McCullagh. — Collected works of. 

Leslie. — Essays on Moral & Political Philosophy. 

Cicero, Correspondence of — by R. Y. Tyrrell. 

Haughton. — Six Lectures on Physical Geography. 

Webb.— Faust, from the German of Goethe. 

Hamilton (Sir Wm. Rowan), The Life of — by Graves. 
Macalister. — An Introduction to Systematic Zoology. 

Plato, The Parmenides of— by T. Maguire. 

The Codex Rescriptus Dublinensis. — St. Matthew’s Gospel. 
Neues Jahrbuch. — Mineralogie, Zoologie and Paleontologie. 
Fouque et Levy. — Mineralogie Micrographique. 



Voyage, H.M.S. “ Challenger.”— Zoology— 5 volumes. 

Do. do. do. Narrative — 1 volume. 

Financial Reform Almanack — 1883. — “ Cobden Club.” 

Colonial History of New York State.— Vols. XII & XIII. 

Natural History of New York. — Paleontology — Vol. V, 2 parts. 
Cartwright.— Cases decided on the B. N. American Act— 1867. 

Library, February 20th, 1883. 

M. Williams Taylor, 

Asst. -Librarian. 



£0 our ji'Ubscvibcvs. 



Our Subscribers will greatly oblige us by remitting 
their subscriptions as soon as possible. 

We also desire that immediate notice be given if the 
“ Gazette 99 is not received regularly. 

Subscriptions should be remitted to the Treasurer 
P. O. Box 1845. 

THE McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE is printed and published for the 
Proprietors by the Gazette Printing Company, Montreal, at their Office, 
corner of St. Francois Xavier and Craig Streets. 



^ducvtiscments. 



CAMPBELL LANE, B.A, B.C.L., 
Advocate, Barrister, Attorney and Solicitor. 

163 ST. JAMES STREET, 

MONTREAL 

Macmaster, Hutchinson, Knapp & Weir, 

ADVOCATES, 

DONALD MACMASTER, Q^C. M HUTCHINSON, B.C.L. 

F. A. KNAPr, B.C.L. R. S. WEIR, B.C.L. 

Surgical Instruments. 

A FULL STOCK CONSTANTLY ON HAND 

'IMPORTED DIRECT 

FROM Tilt 

LEADING MANUFACTURERS 

OF THE WORLD. 

n&r AN INSPECTION INVITED. -®S 

Lyman Sons & Co. 

384 ST. PAUL ST. 



WM. HILL, 

PROFESSOR OF 

Crinicultural Abscission 

— AND 

GRANI0L06I0AL TRIPSIS, 

ST. LAWRENCE HALL 

No. 1323 St. Catherine Street, 

MONTREAL. 

G. W. CLARKE, 

IMPORTER OF 

Books, Stationery, 

AND 

FINE FANCY COODS, NOVELTIES, &c. 

MY stock; or 

NEW GOODS FOR THE HOLIDAYS 

WILL BE FOUND THE FINEST IN THE DOMINION, ANO THE 

Christmas and New Year Cards 

Will also be superior to anything ever imported. 

TZJF CALL AND EXAMINE STOCK S 

G. W. "CLARKE, 

238 & 240 St. James Street. 



10 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[March ist, 



McGill College Text Bool 


^ Wm, BijiMi & Co., 

WHOLESALE AND RETAIL 

Booksellers and Stationers 

DOKS 


DAWSON BROTHERS 

Keep always on hand a full supply of all the TEXT B< 
in use at the College- 

Also, STATIONERY IN ALL VARIETY 

Students’ Xote Books. Students’ Pocket Ink Boi 

— AND — 

NOTE PAPER and EXTELOPES stamped with 
University l>ie, for tlie use of Students. 

FOR SALE AT 

159 "bo 165 Sti. CTam-es Stre< 


College Text Books 

the 

A SPECIALTY 

SUPPLIED AT BOTTOM PRICES. 

et. 


WM. NOTMAN & SOB, 

Photographers to the Quei 

17 and 19 Bleury Street, 

MONTREAL. 


Students’ Note Books— a fine assortment- 

Standard Works, 

School Books, 

Maps, Globes, &e 

£33 ST. TAJ^fES STREET, 

AND 

1433 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 

m 

MONTREAL. 


ft SHUSH OUTFIT IS EVERYTHIN 


t! B. D. Johnson & Son, 


“Steppin an’ C us,” 

AND WE WILL MAKE YOU THE CENTRE OF ADMIRATIC 


DEALERS IX 

) N . 


THE BOSTON 


BOOTS & SHOES 


CLOTHING HOUS 


E, 13 AND 15 



STYLISH AND LOW-PRICED 

CLOTHIERS AND GENTS’ FURNISHERS, 

41 & 43 ST. JOSEPH ST., 



Si3. T osepli Street, 

MONTREAL. 



MONTREAL. 






WHOLESALE AND RETAIL. 



BOOTS MADE TO MEASURE, lei 



i88 3 -] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



11 



C. HILL, 



bookseller anb Stationer. 



CR. SUJlRPPEY & SOJVS, 

IteiucUcvs, 



English and American Periodicals and Illustrated Works. 

BEST LONDON STATIONERY. 

ALL KINDS OF FANCY STATIONERY, 

Cards Engraved— Orders for England, for Town and Country, or the 
United States promptly attended to. Postage Stamps. 



GREENSHIELDS, BUSTEED & GUERIN, 

ADVOCATES, 

jjarristcrs, Attorneys, Solicitors, 




CHAMBERS: EXCHANCE BANK BUILDING, 

102 ST. FRANCOIS XAVIER STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

J. N. GKEENSHiBLDb, B.C.L. E. B. Busteed, B.C.L. Edmuxd Guerin, B.C.L. 



THE LARCEST ASSORTMENT IN THE CITY OF 

MARBLE and BRONZED CLOCKS, 

BRONZED and CHINA STATUARY, 

Sterling Silver and Electro-Plated Ware 

AND EVERY DESCRIPTION OF 

iF.A_:rsro^r qoqds. 

Headquarters for Out-door Games, viz: CRICKET, LAWN TENNIS, 
ARCHERY and FOOTBALL. 



A large assortment of Artists’ and Drawing Materials, consisting 
of WINSOR & NEWTON’S COLORS, WHATMAN'S DRAWING 
PAPERS, TRACING PAPER AND CLOTH. 

1IATHK1I1TICAL IX8TRUHEXTS, Ac. 

£8£ cured £84 JMotre Dctrrue Street. 



ASHFORD’S 
New Book and Stationery Shop 

(One door West of his Old Stand). 

A GOOD SUPPLY 

College Text Books, 

Medical Books, 

Students’ Note Books 

ALWAYS IN STOCK 

i 

AND AT LOWEST POSSIBLE PRICES 

For Medical Students. 

Dissecting Cases and Scalpels by Weiss & Son, Ophthalmascopes Metrique 
De Wecker, Fine Trocar and Canula, Nitrate of Silver Holders, 
Probes, Directors, Clinical Thermometers, 

Pocket Cases, Scissors, &c., 

CHE A.P FOR CASH. 

C. ASHFORD, 

BOOKSELLER & STATIONER, 

678i & 680 DORCHESTER STREET, 




PHOTOGRAPHER 

141 — ST. PETER STREET— 141 



All the latest improvements adopted, including the INSTAN- 
TANEOUS PROCESS, &c., &c. 

COMPOSITION GROUPS executed with intelligent regard to 
established rules of art. 

^CABINET PHOTOGRAPHS of HERBERT SPENCER, taken 
on his recent visit to this city, for sale. Price 50 cents. 

TELEPHONE COMMUNICATION. 

MONOGRAMMED 

Note Paper \ Envelopes 

PUT UP IN BOXES. 

NO CHARGE FOR DIES. 

A VERY ACCEPTABLE 

CHRISTMAS PRESENT. 



GEORGE BISHOP & CO., 

FASHIONABLE ENCRAVERS, 

169 St. James Street: 

: 



MONTREAL. 



12 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[March ist, 1 883* 



RICHELIEU HOTEL 

J. B. DUROCHER, Proprietor. 

JNCQUES CARTIER SQUARE, opp, Court House and City Hall ^ 

MONTREAL. 

The above Hotel Is the best in the City for Hettill College Dinners. 

John Henderson S Go., 

alters & .furriers 

283 NOTRE DAME ST. 





Fur Coats, Caps ancl Gauntlets. 

GEO. BROWN & SONS, 

EXTRA QUALITY GOODS AT LOWEST CASH PRICES. 

Merchant Tailors, 

THE “McGILL” RIBBON FOR SALE. 

— SHIRT AND COLLAR MANUFACTURERS 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS 

THE BEST VALUE IN THE CITY. 



GENERAL OUTFITTERS 



CHEAP STATIONERY OF ALL KINDS. 

W. -T. CL JlR.KE, Bookseller, Ho 21 ZBlexi-X^y- Six* eel 

BEAVER HALL SQUARE. 

MONTREAL. 

R. N. McCALLUM, 



IMPORTER, 



STATIONERY, FANCY GOODS, TOYS, &c., &c. 

1303 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 

QUEEN’S HALL, BLOCK. dVEOXllnreal. 



DIS- 



ESTABLISHED 1818. 



S A.V A. GE & LYMA.N, 

219 ST. JAMES STREET, 

have in stock a large assortment of 

SILVER PLATED GOODS, 

ALSO, 

SOLID SILVER GOODS, IN CASES, 

CARRIACE CLOCKS, &c. 

And a variety of FANCY GOODS suitable for 
WEDDING PRESENTS. 



H. SiANBEBS, 

Optician, 

IMPORTER AND MANUFACTURER OF 

Optical, Mathematical & Surveying Instruments 

SPECTACLES FOR ALL SIGHTS. 

No. 185 ST. JAMES STREET 

MONTREAL 



Montreal: Gazette Printing Company , St. Francois Xavier Street. 



