


Vot. JX. 



JVo* E) ♦ 



McGILL 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



IV ednesday, December 9, 1885. 



Editorials 

Poetry 

Contributions 
Every Fortnight 



CONTENTS : 


PAGE. 




- 3-6 


McGill News 


6-7 


Sporting - 


7-8 


Personals 


8-9 


Between the Lec 



1 



PAGE. 

10-13 

13 

13 

13-14 



MONTREAL : 

PRINTED BY THE BURLAND LITHOGRAPHIC COMPANY. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, McCorkill. Guerin & GreenslMs. 

ADYOCATES, 

Jiarmbrs, jUlortmjs, jlolmfors, fo., 

Chambers : Exchange Bank Building, 

1724 NOTRE DAME STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

J. N. Greenshields. J. C. McCorkill. Edmond Guerin. R. A. E. Greenshields. 



HEADQUARTERS 

—FOR— 




<“ J 

DRYSDALE’S 



232 ST. ST. 



Rokrtson, lie, Fleet k Falconer, 

ADVOCATES, 

151 St. James Street, 

ATWATER & CROSS, 

^flvocate^, |jarri&er$, fjonpi^ioner^ $c., 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 ST. JAMES STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

MACMASTER, HUTCHINSON & WEIR, 

ADVOCATES, 

gamsters, JMicitors, Set., 

175 ST. JAMES STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

DONALD MACMASTER, Q.C. R. $. WEIR, B.C.L. 

M. HUTCHINSON, B.C.L F. S. McLENNAN, B.C.L 

PERIARD, 

Law Bookseller, Publisher, Importer 

And Legal Stationer, 

23 ST. TAMES STREET, 

(near the coukt house,) 

MONTREAL. 




I. B. DUROCHER, Proprietor. 

Jacques Cartier Square, opp, Court House & City Hall, 



MONTREAL. 

THE ABOVE HOTEL is the BEST IN THE CIT7 for McGILL COLLEGE DINNERS. 



JflERICJIIj WORKS, ROOKS USE1> IN ART COURSE, 
SCIENCE TEXT ROOKS , 

THE VARIOUS IHEOLOGICAL ROOKS. 

Full assortment in stock & supplied at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books, Ac., See., 
•^i'BEST IILsT TOW^T’i^ 

Stylographic Pens, Anti- Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty . 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

232 St. James Street, 

.A1LSO 

Branch Store : 1423 St, Catherine St. 

BUY IT OUZEL 

Boots and Shoes, 

RUBBERS, OVERSHOES & MOCCASINS 

— AT — 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

Shoe Stores. 



UP TOWN : QUEEN’S HALL BLOCK, 

1331 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawre nce Main St„ cor. of Craig St. 

JOHN HENDERSON L CO., 

Hatters^Furriers, 

1677 Jfoire Dame Dr. 




Extra Quality Goods at Lowest Cash Prices. 



Xlae “ McGILL ” Kibl>oi. for Sale. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 

Vol. ix.] McGill college, Montreal, December 9th, 1885. [No. 5. 




DIRECTORS. 

Jeffrey II. Burland, B. Ap. Sc., F.C.S., President. 
Edgar De F. Holden, Vice-President . 

Geo. C. Wright, B.A., Sec.-Treas. 

COMMITTEE. 

Charles W. Hoare. 

W. A. Carlyle, Science ’87. 

Fred. W. Hibbard, Arts ’86. 

E. P. Williams, Med. ’87. 

EDITORS. 

A. H. Urquhart Colquhoun, B.A., Editor-in- Chief. 
J. Ralph Murray, B.A., Law ’86. 

Ealeigh J. Elliot, Law ’86. 

Arthur Weir, Science ’86. 

Ed. Evans, Med. ’87. 

C. Percy Brown, Science ’86. 

W. Inglis Bradley, B.A. 

Alfred P. Murray, Arts ’ 87 . 

The University Gazette will be published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which 
rule no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

All communications may be addressed to the Editors, P. 0. 
Box 1290. 



NOTICE. 

Subscribers to the Gazette who do not receive 
their papers regularly will please notify the Sec.- 
Treas., as this is the only method of having the un- 
avoidable mistakes and necessary imperfections of the 
mailing system rectified. 

Subscribers wishing to preserve their last year’s 
volume of the Gazette, may have them neatly bound 
in cloth, by Messrs. John Lovell & Son. with whom 
arrangements have been made to do the work, at a 
charge of fifty cents per volume. 

To Correspondents. 

M. F. C. — Your communication should be accom- 
panied by your name and address. 



Editorials. 



EXPANSION. 

The McGill Gazette has now been in being some 
nine years. It had at first a precarious existence, only 
a few of the more thoughtful of the graduates and un- 
dergraduates of McGill of those days, realized what an 



important part it was destined to play in the history 
of our University. Gradually, however, it has suc- 
ceeded in making its power felt until it has now come 
to be recognized as one of the most important factors 
which go to make up the educational system of our 
alma mater. The organ of the students, it is therefore 
the devoted friend of the University, a friend in the 
highest sense of the word, one who speaks kindly, yet 
candidly, of both merits and demerits. 

Its continued existence, then, is happily no longer 
a matter of anxiety ; it rests secure, on the one hand, 
in the universal recognition of its usefulness by the 
large number of students who annually flock in to the 
different faculties of the University, and, on the other, 
on a solid financial basis. We have only to concern 
ourselves nt)w with the question — How can we in- 
crease its usefulness and add to its interest? 

There are two colleges in this Province affiliated to 
McGill, and out of Montreal, into which we desire 
very much to- see this paper introduced, Morrin and 
St. Francis. Towards McGill the students of these 
colleges look for final study and for graduation. How 
worthily these schools perform their functions, let the 
many men now graduates of McGill, but who pursued 
their studies in them, and who now adorn their pro- 
fessions in all parts of the Dominion, answer. These 
men, however, are to a great extent cut off from many 
of the advantages which a residence in a large city and 
an intercourse with a larger number of fellow-workers 
afford. They miss familiarity with the events that are 
transpiring in studentdom, and feel themselves more 
or less isolated in their work. To the students of these 
colleges The Gazette would come, an open letter, 
putting them au fait upon all the subjects which from 
time to time agitate student life and which rouse into 
beneficial activity the student mind. 

But these are not all, nor are they the greatest ad- 
vantages to be derived from the paper being intro- 
duced into these schools. We should be very glad to 
publish regularly reports of the debating societies and 
all other societies which these schools support, and to 
receive literary contributions from them. We believe 
that this proposal will have much weight with the 
Principals of both Morrin and St. Francis, alive, as 
they are, to the wonderful help to the teacher a wisely 
directed stimulant to independent thought and effort 
on the part of the student, is. Another advantage is, 



4 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1885. 



that we are in a position to give the most reliable in- 
formation upon all questions in connection with 
change of curriculum at McGill, and in connection 
with the different Bar and Medical examinations. 

In conclusion, we appeal to the students of these 
colleges to assist us in our endeavour to establish 
closer relations between all the parts of the Univer ity, 
in their own interests, in ours, and in the interests of 
our common alma mater. 



THE NEW SONG BOOK. 

Now that the new song book is on the point of 
being published we must not omit to thank those who 
for over two years have been devoting themselves to 
the work of compiling and editing it. No one who 
has not himself been employed in a like task can 
estimate the arduous nature of the work to be done, 
and although we felt at times a little impatient at the 
long deferred appearance of the book, yet we thor- 
oughly appreciated the trouble which was being taken 
for the benefit of the students by the gentlemen who 
composed the committee. We must especially thank 
Mr. Charles H. Gould, B.A., as well as Professor Moyse 
and Mr. Wm. McLennan, B.C.L., for their very great 
services in the matter. As Mr. McLennan said the 
other evening at the dinner of the University Literary 
Society it is doubtful whether the work would have 
seen the light had it not been for Mr. Gould’s help. 
Mr. McLennan himself, we believe, wrote several of 
the songs. We congratulate these gentlemen, the 
committee and the whole body of students upon the 
completion of the work. 

We may state that the book has been sold almost 
entirely to the publishers, and that on this account 
the committee will not be able to send complimentary 
copies to other universities, as they should otherwise 
have been most happy to do. 

SISTER ASSOCIATIONS. 

The belief should not be entertained that there is 
any rivalry between the University and Under- 
graduates Literary Societies. They are both engaged 
in the same good work ; they both appeal, it is true, to 
college men generally. But each has its own exclusive 
sphere, into which the other cannot enter. For the 
younger men the college society must always exist ; to 
the graduates, mainly, the older association looks for 
support. There is, however, nothing incompatible 
with the loyalty of members of one society occasion- 
ally attending the meetings of the other. The gradu- 
ates do not often visit the Undergraduates Society, 
because they feel that their presence may be a restraint 
upon those who are beginning to debate in public, and 



who have not yet acquired perfect freedom of expres- 
sion and clearness of thought when speaking in 
public. It will do the students no harm to mix some- 
times with the members of the older Society ; not to 
the extent of neglecting their own debating club, but 
simply to gain some idea of how men, for the most 
part engaged in the serious business of life, conduct 
themselves. In any case, the relation between the two 
associations should be that of hearty co-operation. 

With the exception of lacrosse the national sports 
of Canada are those of winter, and of these Hockey is 
perhaps the most prominent. It has always been the 
chief attraction among our Carnival games and a 
general favorite with our students. 

McGill has, by the way, the honor of possessing the 
oldest hockey club in Canada, and indeed we believe 
our college to have introduced the game here. 

Although there will be no carnival this year, there 
is every prospect of the usual hockey competitions 
taking place, and we see no reason why our club 
should not acquit itself in its usual creditable manner. 

To glance briefly at the record of the past three 
years : 

The first Carnival Cup was won by McGill. 

Many of our readers remember in the second car- 
nival when McGill tied for the Cup our being defeated 
in that famous game when Capt. Elder marched his 
men off the ice. We were defeated in the final tie 
that year. 

Last year’s events are too recent to need much com- 
ment. Suffice it to say we were a good second and 
allowed to have had the best of the play in the final 
game in which we were beaten by hard luck and the 
score of one goal to nothing. 

We need however make no appeal on behalf of the 
club. The record speaks for itself. There are never- 
theless many who have never seen the game and we 
advise them to improve their opportunities this winter. 
Any skater can play it. 

Our material is exceptionally good this year and 
with the cordial co-operation of the students there is 
no reason why the season’s record should not equal or 
even surpass that of the best of former years. 

M e are glad to see that the good old custom of hav- 
ing annual i acuity Dinners has not been allowed to 
drop as some croakers have been predicting. As a 
means of promoting social spirit and increasing “esprit 
de Faculty it is unequalled. Medicine leads the way 
this year, and Arts and Applied Science contemplate 
having their dinners shortly after the holidays. We 
have not yet heard anything definite in regard to the 



1885.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



5 



Law dinner, but feel assured that, in view of the in- 
creasing part that Faculty is playing in college life, it 
will not be behind hand in that most important event 
of a university year. 



THE McGILL SONG BOOK. 

The Song Book is out at last and completely justifies 
the committees in the time they have taken in 
issuing it. It will soon be in the hands of all who 
are interested in McGill, and we hope to see a Glee 
Club established and to hear from now onward, when- 
ever McGill songs are sung, whether in theatre or 
drawing-room, well rendered choruses. To whet the 
appetites of our readers for the treat in store, we pro- 
pose to review briefly the work, of which a copy is 
before us. The book contains one hundred and nine 
songs, all but five of which are set to music. The ma- 
jority, of course, are in English, but twelve are in 
French, five in German and several in Latin. One 
French song, “ L’enfant du McGill,” is from the pen 
of Dr. Frechette, with music by Couture, and four of 
the others ai e accompanied by translations. Thus the 
McGill Song Book is a direct refutation of the state- 
ment that English and French are not in sympathy 
with one another, for in it we find a distinguished 
Frenchman, laureate of the Academy, lending his pen 
to an English work and Englishmen putting into an 
English setting the gems of French Canadian song. A 
better repertory of songs we never saw between the 
same number of pages. The pieces vary in length 
from rounds of one and two lines to songs of three, 
four and five pages, and in complexity from “ Saw 
My Leg Off” and “ Clotilda” to “ Softly Fall the 
Shades of Evening” and “ The Three Chafers.” 

The contributions, to five of which the music also 
is original, are an important feature of the work, there 
being no fewer than twenty- three from McGill men 
alone. We predict that many of these will come into 
common use. 

As regards the musical portion of the book, scarcely 
too much can be said in its praise. We have tried 
almost every song and have found the accompani- 
ments always good. We have said that several songs 
in the book are set to original music, and if we take 
into consideration the songs whose music has been 
adapted, altered, harmonized or arranged for several 
voices the list becomes much larger. The “ Bull-dog,” 
for example, has been arranged for bass and tenor. Be- 
sides this, many songs are for the first time accom- 
panied by written music, the airs having been taken 
down by Mr. Gould from the lips of some one who 
knew them. 

Perhaps our readers crave for a specimen of the 
songs. It is hard to choose, but in our estimation 
“ Eliza ” is among the best humorous pieces in the 
book. It is a ditty of a student who never suc- 
ceeded in his studies, though fired to ambitious 
thoughts by the influence of his girl. It runs as 
follows : 

’Tis years ago since I came to McGill, 

And ’t was all on account ot Eliza, 

And in spite of time I’m fixed here still 
And the name of my girl’s still Eliza. 



I always wished for a high degree, 

A D.C L. or an LL.D., 

Whichever came first was the same to me 
And precisely the same to Eliza. 

Chorus. 

Exactly the same, precisely the same, quite, quite the 
same to Eliza. 

Whichever came first was the same to me 
And precisely the same to Eliza. 

I flattered myself I was formed for the Law, 

Which delighted the charming Eliza, 

I’d a fairish head and a strongish jaw, 

As I often remarked to Eliza. 

I attended the courts where Justice sits, 

I stuck to my office and copied the writs, 

And ground at the Code, till I muddled ray wits— 

And all on account of Eliza. 

Chorus. 

All on account, all on account, all on account of Eliza, 

I ground at the Code till I muddled my wits, — 

And all on account of Eliza. 

I found in time that the Law was dry, 

Although approved by Eliza; 

I found that before the Court I was shy. 

Although not so with Eliza, 

So I said— “ My love, you must clearly see 
I’ve a soul above a lawyer’s fee, 

Now what do you say to a real M.D. ?” 

“ All right, ray dear,” said Eliza. 

Chorus. 

“ All right, my dear, all right, my love, all right, my 
dear/' said Eliza, 

M.D. appears much higher than a B. 

C.L., responded Eliza. 

So I out and sawed with a hearty'will— 

And all on account of Eliza ; 

Although at first I was often ill, 

To the great distress of Eliza. 

I wore a skull in a black necktie. 

I smoked when ’twas wet, and I drank when ’twas dry, 

But at the exam. I was “ plucked on the fly,” 

Which I couldn’t explain to Eliza. 

Chorus. 

’Twas so hard to explain , I could hardly explain , I couldn’t 
explain to Eliza. 

So the reason why I was “ plucked on the fly ” 

Is still unexplained to Eliza. 

Having thus been left by the Meds. in the lurch, 

To the great disgust of Eliza, 

I determined to have a go at the Church, 

And was well backed up by Eliza. 

I gave up the World and the Flesh and the D— , 

Which never had any temptations for me, 

For a thorough Parson I would be— 

And all on account of Eliza- 

Chorus. 

All on account, all on account, all on account of Eliza, 

For a thorough Parson I would be — 

And all on account of Eliza. 

But I found, alas ! that the World was fair— 

Which was due somewhat to Eliza ; 

That linen as a shirt was better than hair — 

And cleaner, too,” said Eliza. 

So I cut the Church, and now I’m free 
To take B. A. or some other degree. 

And I’ in sure you’ll all agree with me — 

If I leave the choice with Eliza. 

Chorus. 

Eliza, my dear ! Eliza, my girl ! Now’s your chance, my 
Eliza ! 

You’ve got the choice, you’re entirely free— 

So put him through, dear Eliza ! 

Turning to the shorter pieces we find among others 
this lively verse — 

Nice little chinawoman makee bully chow chow, 

Live on a little hill ’side a little house, 

Take a little pussy cat and a little bow wow. 

Put him in a little pot with a little mouse, etc. 

The song of Dr. Frechette will perhaps be read with 
the greatest amount of interest, and for those who are 
not well enough up in “ La Belle Langue ” to know 



6 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1885. 



what they are singing, we have made the following 
hurried translation, for which we crave Dr. Frechette’s 
forbearance, should it ever meet his eye. 

THE McGILL BOY. 

Who is this youth who speeds along 
O’er asphalt pave or yielding snow ? 

Around his brow the breezes blow : 

He hurries schoolward with a song. 

Refrain. 

Than a bird gayer, freer than air, 

What youth is this ? Tell me, who will ? 

’Tis the wonderful, ’tis the successful, 

’Tis the mirthful Boy of McGill. 

He bears a book beneath his arm ; 

Youth is as yet his sole estate ; 

Confident, bold, he scoffs at fate 
And finds in life itself a charm. 

His moustache, though it often seems 
A rebel to his tireless care. 

More than the whiskers others wear 
Has been in many a fair one’s dreams. 

Sweetly deceived, oft-times his heart 
To cling to some dear memory seems, 

Yet in the future that he dreams 
His aged mother has a part. 

What though in many an escapade 
He shares ! His sins we’ll not recall : 

This scamp will often give his all 
Some needier college mate to aid. 

His heart is proof to worry’s stings, 

And, merry still, he goes his way, 

And ever ** Forward !” seems to say 
“ Until the hour for labor rings.” 



nan andGould,each of which gentlemen has contributed 
more to the song book than any one other, Mr. Gould 
bringing his musical talent to bear upon faulty songs 
and Mr. McLennan putting Pegassus into harness for 
our benefit. The latter’s translations of “ Brigadier,’ 
“ A La Claire Fontaine ” and “ En Roulant Ma Boule ” 

are little gems. . 

The following are the names of the committees that 
have at last ceased to exist after nearly two years of 
unremitting work. 

Executive Committee. — W. G. Stewart, B.A., 85, 
chairman ; C. W. Wilson, ’86, Med., secretary ; E. P. 
Mathewson, B.A.S., ’85, treasurer; C. H. Livingstone, 
’86, Arts ; G. H. Dawson, ’86, Sci. ; W. D. T. Ferguson, 
’87, Med. 

Compilation Committee. — Prof. Moyse, chairman ; 
Wm. McLennan, B.C.L., ’80 ; Prof. Harrington ; E. 
P. Mathewson, B.A.S. ; C. H. Gould, B.A., ’77 ; C. 
W. Wilson ; W. G. Stewart, secretary. 

We feel sure we only voice the desires of our fellow 
students when we congratulate these gentleman upon 
the success of their undertaking and thank them for 
theii labors on our behalf, and on that of those who 
will come after us. 



Poetry. 



“ All people cry on every hand : 

Who can this noisy fellow be 

That seeks amusement?” Know that he 

The premise is of this our land. 



[for the gazette. 

HORiE HORATIONiE. 



The publication of a Song Book is an event of such 
importance in the students’ history of our college that 
we deem it our duty to give the history of the enter- 
prise and to put on record the names of the committees, 
who with almost blame-worthy modesty have neglected 
to insert their names in the Song Book. It was on 
Feb. 12th, 1884, that the first meeting to discuss the 
advisibility of issuing a Song Book, called by W. G. 
Stewart, B.A., ’85, was held in the Medical Building. 
The result of this meeting was that on March 7 th, 1884, 
the first sitting of the committee took place, at which 
representatives from every faculty, except that of Law, 
were present. Law has stood aloof throughout the 
entire enterprise, but whether this is due to the 
faculty or only to its representatives we do not know. 
The committee was hindered by a lack of funds and 
the difficulty of procuring a publisher. One could 
not publish for a year, another for two, and a third 
was willing to begin at once but demanded a price be- 
yond the committee’s command. In time, however, 
Mr. Lamplough purchased the copyright upon the 
book, and with a guarantee of a sale of half the first 
edition has brought the book out. The limit as to 
price has necessitated a limit as to size, but we under- 
stand that the third edition will be increased one-third 
from songs unavoidably kept out of this issue and 
from such new songs as may be deemed worthy of a 
place in the book. 

It was to be expected that the students, and might 
have been expected that the professors would interest 
themselves in the Song Book, but we have been for- 
tunate in securing the valuable aid of Messrs. McLen- 



BOOK II. : ODE X. 

Licinius! wisely wouldst thou steer, 

Launch not too boldly on the deep, 

Nor to the treacherous coast, in fear 
Of storms, too closely creep. 

He who selects the golden mean 

Shuns the foul cabin’s mouldering walls, 
Nor sighs, contented and serene, 

For envy-haunted halls. 

Tall pines by gules are shaken oft, 

Proud turrets fall with heaviest crash, 
And mountain peaks that soar aloft 
Provoke the lightning’s flash. 

A soul well tutored hopes, in woe, 

And fears in weal , a change of state : • 
The God that sends the cheerless snow, 
Withdraws it, soon or late. 

Tears will be followed by a smile ; 

At times Apollo with his lyre 
Wakes the still Muse, nor bends awhile 
His bow with vengeful ire. 

Caught in the narrow straits of ill, 

Prove the brave mettle of thy mind : 

And wisely reef the sails that fill 
With too propitious wind. 



BOOK II. ; ODE XIV. 

Oh ! Postumus, my friend, my friend, 
The years glide swiftly to an end ; 

No prayers can wrinkled age delay, 
Ur death’s inevitable day. 



Three daily hecatombs of steers 
From Pluto’s eyes can win no tears ; 
Sternly he holds earth’s giant brood 
Imprisoned with a gloomy flood— 



-tutu iiuuu, wnicn an must traverse soon, 
All we, who feed on nature’s boon ; 

Kings though we be, exempt from toil, 
Or needy tillers of the soil. 



1885.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



7 



What though we shun War’s bloody plain, 

And the hoarse surge of Adria’s main ; 

What though in Autumn’s sultry hour 
We dread the south wind’s blighting power: 

To black Cocytus, oozing slow. 

And the vile Danaids we must go : 

Him we must see, who rolls the stone, 

Condemned eternally to groan. 

Earth, home, and charming wife must be 
Abandoned, and no cherished tie 
Save only cypresses abhorred, 

Shall follow thee, their short-lived lord 1 

An heir thy Coecuban shall seize, 

Close guarded with a hundred keys ; 

And revelry the floor shall stain 
With choicer wine than Pontiff’s drain. 

Geo. Murray. 

lontributions. 

A STORY OF THE MOONLIGHT. 

BY H. D’ALTONA. 

Translated from the German by Gowan Lea. 



He was ill — ill in body and soul ; ill in luck and 
money ; ill in joy and love. 

What a long time had elapsed since it all happened ! 

Exactly ten years ago to-day began the high tide of 
his happiness. 

Exactly ten years ago to-day began the ebb-tide 
whose waves at last carried him to the shores of death. 

The only adornment of the plaster walls, with the 
exception of some pen-and-ink sketches, was a dried 
myrtle wreath, and a framed letter written in a pretty 
lady-like hand. 

To-day, ten years ago, had he, the talented, but 
penniless artist, led to the altar the maiden of his 
choice, — the beautiful and only daughter of the coun- 
sellor of finance. 

To-day, five years ago, as he returned from the birth- 
day fest of prima donna of the opera, had he been 
struck speechless by reading that letter which now 
hung on the wall beside the myrtle wreath. 

“ Thou hast deceived thyself in thy love !” so ran 
the letter. u The five years of our married life have 
convinced me, that what the respect of a wife impera- 
tively demands that she shall be to her husband, I 
cannot be to thee. I am too proud longer to play the 
humiliating role of silent endurance, and I know you 
will be thankful to me for releasing you from the 
matrimonial bond. In three weeks the broad ocean 
will be between us. No power on earth can make me 
retract this step.” 

Eight days later the husband found her name in the 
passenger-list of those having sailed for New York. 

He had made no attempt to alter her decision ; 
there was no farewell letter, no last greeting. 

With almost too great precipitation he gave up his 
house ; and likewise all engagements, social and pro 
fessional, and sought an asylum in a modest little 
hamlet far away in the suburbs of the city. 

“ Leave me alone, I pray you !” he had said to the 
inquiring neighbours. “ I want no comforting ; I am 
not unhappy.” 



And they left him alone. At the same time in the 
drawing-rooms the words of the wife of the cousellor- 
of-finance were being handed around ; “ Abominable ! 
Not content with driving my daughter to America, he 
hires himself out as a penny-a-lince !” 

The life of this pale silent man soon began to have 
the appearance of that of an outlaw, or ever did he 
seek to intensify the isolation of his position. 

His intercourse with the world was at length com- 
prised with going round with the lawyers’ letters 
which he copied, and in the occasional exchange of a 
few remarks with his landlady. 

Only once again did he bring his artistic talent into 
play ; that was to make the pen-and-ink sketches upon 
the wall. Then were easel and pallet, pens and pen- 
cils, thrown into the fire ; and as he gazed at the last 
sparks of the destroyed utensils, he said to himself, 

“ The bridge is broken. No more happiness, no 
art, no world. Only one thing remains : Renuncia- 
tion !” 

All had come now to avoid his deserted looking 
dwelling ; all seemed to have been repulsed by his 
silent manner : all but one. To this one had the 
lonely man withdrawn the curtain of his being. 

This one was — the Moon. Often had it as if with 
caressing hand touched his pale cheeks and not infre- 
quently had that solemn earnestness in his features 
given place to an expression of calmness, and then the 
firmly-closed lips had moved as if to invite social con- 
verse. 

He lay this evening upon his couch among the 
debris of his wrecked life. An invalid sofa, a table, 
a chair, a broken spindle — these remained as fragments 
of his former happiness ; and, among these, after the 
delirium that followed a wild carousal, he came to con- 
sciousness, to listen, as he thought, to the gnawing of 
the death-worms within his hollow breast. 

The moon seemed to be pointing to the myrtle- 
wreath upon the wall. 

“ Yes, yes, you are right, old friend !” muttered the 
feverish man, “ show me the pictures for the last time ! 
Y ou are right ! To-day, ten years ago, that wreath 
crowned the pinnach of my happiness. I had means, 
honour, love, and (the moonlight fell upon the framed 
farewell letter)— to-day, five years ago, the proud 
structure broke under me and fell in ruins. I awoke 
from my mad dream to face an awful reality.” 

“ Five years have gone ! Five years ! Oh my God, 
— and not to be able to forget ! Five years struggle 
with my heart to drive love out of it, and to find that 
the conflict ever ends in defeat ! Why must one love 
when to hate or to forget were a greater, yes, a worse 
punishment]” 

A ray of moonlight now showed in relief the draw- 
ing of a woman’s head — a head it seemed of quite ideal 
beauty. 

“ I understand thy address to my guilt,” said he. 
“But are we not all erring men, and am I the only 
one whose soul burns itself out from a consciousness 
of guilt ? Did the siren not take me in her net and 
ensnare me with her eyes, and was not her love at 
times as if fixed in ice 1 0 moon, — she had such a cold 
heart !” 

Then the moonlight fell upon a picture of a totally 



8 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1885 . 



different character— a picture taken from life of a com- 
pany of drunkards. 

“ Yes, yes,” whispered the sick man, turning his 
head away : “ that’s what did it ! From my wine- 
poisoned breath her love flew away. Then I sought 
more and more frequently that jovial company, and 
tried through the goblet to drown the pure voice that 
secretly seemed ever to be calling to me. But — I may 
tell thee, 0 moon ! 

They looked through their jests. 

And saw but my smile ; 

The gloom in my heart, 

They saw not the while!” 

Now the soft light of the moon rested upon another 
picture on the wall ; — a miserable man, his face buried 
in his hands, stands before a blighted rose-bush. 

And again he whispers with feverish breath : “ I 
ought so tenderly to have guarded my little rose. I 
left it alone in the rude autumn wind, and in its un- 
loved solitude it knew not how to face the winter 
storm.” 

“ Had I no eye to see her pale cheeks ; no feeling 
for the dumb reproach of her tear-bedewed counten- 
ance ! I did not protect my little rose : the storm 
swept it out of my sight. That is the picture of my 
penitence, 0 Moon ! Thou knowest it, thou, — the only 
one to whom I have ever told the meaning of my pic- 
tures. This one I call : — ‘ I have lost thee ; for I 
was not worthy of thee ’ ” 

A black cloud passed over the queen of the stars. 

“ And, since then, it has always been night about 
me !” continued the sick man, “ the night which I 
brought down upon myself, as I wickedly shut my- 
self off from the star of my life. I was to proud to 
confess my fault ; too proud to beg for love ! And 
yet, how I thirsted for love ! How I yearned for 
peace ! Night, long night of my troubled soul, — is it 
not possible for you to grant me one ray of joy, before 
I sink in the everlasting sleep V 9 

The silvery moon emerged from the black web of 
cloud, as if an angel stepped out of paradise to point 
the way to the golden gate. 

Over the countenance of the penitent the peaceful 
light of heaven fell, while his eyes fixed themselves 
upon the last of his sketches. 

“ Thank thee, 0 moon,” he continued, “ for the 
consolatian thou hast given me ! Thou hast heard the 
dumb cry of my heart. Thou hast been the witness 
of my bitter penitence, and upon the silvery path of 
thy pure ray, my blessing has passed over to her. Too 
proud to show the deep sorrow of my heart to any 
child of earth — my being has been laid bare to thee !” 

The last picture was that of a coffin in which lay a 
man whose eyes had closed for ever. Over him bends 
an angelic form whose right hand is stretched over his 
head in blessing, while the left is laying upon his 
breast a wreath of Immortelles bearing the inscription : 
— “ Pardon.” 

The eyes of the dying man are fixed upon this pic- 
ture as if with painful longing. Once more his lips, 
now growing cold, move as if in earnest prayer : — 
“ Thank thee, 0 Moon ! Thou hast seen how my hand 
trembled with every stroke as I drew that last picture. 
From yonder heavenly height thou bringest me down 



comfort. Upon thy soft ray an answer is sent to my 
penitent soul : ‘ Pardon,’ ‘ Pardon.’ ” 



Euery Fortnight. 



I promised in my first fortnight to keep at the din- 
ing hall question hammer and tongs during the course 
of the year. I must now say that I have not the heart 
to do it. 1 give in. And yet, you may exclaim with 
surprise, the Secretary has not gone. That cavernous 
compromise between a restaurant and a rat-hole has 
been too much for me. The idea truly was a good 
one. The conception was statesmanlike, but the exe- 
cution was rather confined. Let them kill their appe- 
tites in the open air and in broad daylight. But I 
must refrain — for who can conquer circumstances at a 
stroke ! I mean, then, to alter the burden of my cry. 
Let the Secretary stay. 

* 

Let me express a sincere hope that nothing that I 
have said in past “Fortnights” has been the means of 
giving pain to anyone, even the smallest child. I try 
to avoid being personal as much as possible, but a Critic, 
you know, must criticize somebody or something. 
Anyone who knows me knows that there is no one in 
the world more pained at the mere idea of giving pain 
to another. And yet I think it is a kind of luxury 
sometimes to hurt the feelings of a person one admires 
and loves ; the reconciliation is so sweet. I am not 
talking altogether now of lover’s quarrels. But to in- 
dulge this luxury perhaps is wrong. A friend once 
said to me, “The evil cannot take away from me the 
memory of the good ; the good cannot altogether ban- 
ish the memory of the evil.” But unintentionally I 
may have hurt, or in the future may hurt, the feelings 
of some reader. Accept my apology now. That is all 
I can offer you. But for goodness sake do not take me 
too seriously— my friends never do. Only when I put 
on a serious face then know that I am in earnest. 



I often think with the philosophers that we would 
be so much happier if we were not bothered with sus- 
ceptibilities and emotions and all that kind of thing. 
For instance, some remarks in the Gazette about him 
last year would not have rankled so long in that gen- 
tleman’s breast who referred so contemptuously at the 
late dinner to the College Journal as a sheet. I am 
afraid it has been rather a wet blanket to him ; but I 
hope, Mr. Editor, that your special reporter will do 
him justice this time, because he did not do so very 
badly after all. 

* * 

* 

I am constrained to admit, to use an elegant expres- 
sion never before employed, that I have been mightily 
disappointed in not having received a single communi- 
cation from the lady undergraduates. I had hoped 
that some crumb of comfort, some little soothing and 
encouraging note, would have been addressed to Critic. 
But no ! not even a sanguinary malediction has reach- 
ed me, borne on the wings of a scented dove. I do 
not wish to divulge my personality, because too much 



1885.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



9 



of a good thing is good for nothing. But let me hoar 
from you just once. 1 shall not reject your manuscript, 
no matter how good it is. 



Those translations of Horace by Mr. George Mur- 
ray in the last number of the Gazette gave me great 
pleasure. I took down my Horace from its shelf, 
and, having carefully removed the dust, I compared 
the English verses with the original, and I thus appre- 
ciated the surprising faithfulness of the former. I ad- 
vise those of my readers who are “ nothing particular’' 
in the classics to take their books and do the same. 

* * i 

* 

The dinner of the University Literary Society was, 
I believe, a great success, notwithstanding the fact that 
some of those who were to have given songs backed 
out at the last moment. It is really most disappoint- 
ing when people consent to go to a dinner and then 
stay away on the most frivolous pretence. If a person 
does not mean to go, let him state it like a man at the 
beginning, and thus perhaps save the committee from 
financial embarrassment. I remember when I was in 
college, a number of years ago, being let in for a few 
dollars in this way. 

* * 

* 

From all appearances, the new song book promises 
to be a great success. If “ Eliza ” may be taken as a 
specimen, there is no fear ef our being disappointed. 
I suggested at the beginning of the session that the 
book should be inaugurated, to use a rather inelegant 
expression, by a concert in the Molson Hall. I still 
think the idea a good one, and would advise the new 
University Club to try and arrange for a concert of 
the kind in aid of their funds. 



The movement to establish a University Club has 
my best wishes. “Neither do we by any means 
always go to people for conversation. How often to 
say nothing, — and yet must go ; as a child will long 
for his companions, but among them plays by himself. 
Tis only presence which we want. But one thing is 
certain - at some rate, intercourse we must have. The 
experience of retired men is positive, — that we lose 
our days and are barren of thought for want of some 
person to talk with. The understanding can no more 
empty itself by its own action than can a deal box.” 
Thus wrote Emerson, and we echo the sentiment. 
“ But one thing is certain, at some rate, intercourse we 
must have.” 

* 

I think the Gazette deserves great credit for the 
practical way in which it has set the movement going. 
It now remains for the older graduates to come for- 
ward and support the undertaking. Let us hope that 
it will not be tough work for those who have taken the 
matter in hand. 

* , * 

Sc 

Here is an opportunity for the professors to come to 
the front. Let them come forward and not be so fond 



of hiding their lights under bushels. This is one of 
those cases where all may work together. 

Sc 

I said last fortnight that, from a social standpoint, 
the professors were an utter failure. I shall hardly be 
called upon to substantiate this statement, for the truth 
of it is patent to everyone. But this is a delicate 
affair. I remember when I was at college receiving 
periodically from a certain professor an invitation to 
spend the evening at his house. As about one hun- 
dred others received like invitations I never accepted, 
hoping that with such a crowd I should not be missed. 
I recognize now that I made a great mistake. True, 
I most likely should have found the entertainment a 
most unmitigated bore, but it would at all events have 
been an experience, and, besides, it would have shown 
an appreciation of the kind intention. As a writer in 
this paper some time ago remarked, the fault lies al- 
most as much with the students as with the professors. 
Advances on one side must be kindly received on the 
other. But then people go out to be amused and to 
enjoy themselves. Why is it that entertainments of 
the kind I refer to are so utterly stupid both to enter- 
tainers and entertained ] There is too much formality ; 
not enough freedom ; less conventionalism is wanted, 
and more desire to please. I can imagine nothing 
much further removed from true sociability than the 
feeling experienced upon being stuffed into a drawing- 
room with a number of awkward young men, a bevy 
of old maids and an array of microscopes. And yet I 
do not so much object to natural science in the ab- 
stract — it is the combination that kills. Let there be 
concerted action, if not much can be done individually. 
But, as I said before, this is a delicate subject, and I 
had better now leave it. 

* * 

* 

It is wonderful how an old thought newly clothed 
arrests one. Here is something from the Hindu : 
“ Constantly rising up a man should reflect and ask 
himself, ‘ What good thing have I done this day ] The 
setting sun will carry with it a portion of my life.’ ” 

Critic. 



CHRISTMAS EXAMINATIONS. 

(medical department, practice of medicine — (time, 

ONE HOUR). 

1. Called to see patient six hours after his Xmas 
dinner : Give the morbid anatomy, complications and 
sequelae. 

2. Give the complications and sequelae which may 
not follow smallpox ; and how would you treat them 1 

3. Freshman nostalgia. Its symptoms and treatment. 

4. Give several theories (all hypothetical) to account 
for Diabetes Mellitus and criticise them (answer limited 
to six pages). 

5. Collapse of " plucked ” Senior. Give symptoms 
and treatment. At what stage and in what quantity 
would you administer stimulants ? 

6. What symptoms would lead to diagnosis that a 
Junior spent his Xmas holidays in the city. Mention 
the more important sequelae and the time of their oc- 
currence. 



10 McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. [1885. 



FOR THE GAZETTE.] 

MY HEART, I WISH TO ASK THEE. 

{Translated, from the German by Gotcan Lea.) 

My heart, I wish to ask thee, 

What then is love, 0 say ? 

" Two souls with one thought only, 

Two hearts tuned to one lay 1” 

And say. whence cometh love then ? 

“ We know not of the where I” 

And say, how goeth love then ? 

“ What goes was never there!” 

And tell me. what is pure love? 

“ For self it hath no will 1” 

And when is love the deepest? 

“ When it is calm ana still !” 

And when is love the richest?! 

“ That is it when it gives 1” 

And 0. how talketh love then?” 

” It doth not talk— it lives ?” 



Jflct&ill News. 



The Class of ’86 in Applied Science held a meeting 
on the 24th ult., and elected Mr. Arthur Weir as their 
Valedictorian. 

The following additional donations have been made 
to the “ University Club,” St. Catherine street: fine 
pictures, by G. B. Burland, Esq., the Century Maga- 
zine , by Mr. R. J. Elliot ; the Week, by Mr. W. H. 
Turner ; and several other periodicals. 

In the course of his lecture on “ Science in Canada,” 
Major W. P. Anderson, C.E., etc., of the Marine De- 
partment and President of the Ottawa Literary and 
Scientific Society, said that “ McGill” was facile pr in- 
ceps amongst the Universities of Canada in the work 
it was doing for science and scientific engineering. 
He also paid a high compliment to the zeal, activity, 
and incessant labours of Principal Sir Wm. Dawson, 
the centre of scientific light in Canada, and whose 
labours had been so worthily acknowledged by the 
British Association for the Advancement of Science. 



THE LITERARY SOCIETY’S DINNER. 

The dinner of the University Literary Society was 
held in the Ladies’ Ordinary of the Windsor Hotel on 
Friday evening the 27th ult. and was in every respect 
a grand success. Whether we regard the large number 
present, the recherche menu , or the perfect arrange- 
ment of the after-dinner speeches and songs, we have 
nothing but congratulations for the society upon the 
event, and for its general committee to whom were 
entrusted the details of the affair. About sixty gentle- 
men, past and present members of the society, sat down 
to dinner. The chair was occupied by Mr. McGoun, 
President of the Society, the vice-cliairs by Mr. C. J. 
Doherty, an ex-president, and Messrs. C. J. Brooke and 
J. R. Murray, the Vice-Presidents. 

After the excellent bill of fare had been thoroughly 
discussed and enjoyed, the President arose and propo- 
sed the health of Her Majesty the Queen which was 
received with the greatest enthusiasm, the entire 
assembly rolling forth the national anthem with grand 
effect. The toast to the Governer General, “ Not given 



to talk unless there is something to be said, but well 
capable of it then ”, then followed. 

The President then proposed the toast to The Em- 
pire in one of those thoughtful and scholarly speeches 
for which he is becoming noted. He said that, apart 
from the personal love to our Sovereign, as one who 
adorned the throne with all the virtue of Christian 
womanhood, the political idea most prominently sug- 
gested by her name was that the Queen is the bond 
which united us to our fellow sublects in every part of 
this world-wide Empire. The British Empire is not 
only great in territory, like the United States and 
Russia, but it is great in the diversity of the people 
and countries it unites under one flag, one sovereignt 
and one constitution. It had been truly pointed out 
the tendency of moder nations was towards grouping 
together the nations having political affinities. This 
tendency accorded well with the purest spirit of Christ- 
ianity. The greatest idea was, of course, the parliament 
of man, the federation of the world ; but, in striving to 
obtain this, there should be carefully excluded the 
narrow principle of race distinction. A greater and 
more Christianlike task than even that of uniting the 
members of one race would be to preserve in perpetual 
union the elements of a nation that had succeeded in 
harmonizing the interests of different nations and pre- 
serving to each its rights, previleges and characteristics. 
We must beware of race exclusiveness which is opposed 
to the true ideal of the common brotherhood of man. 
First, let there be perpetual union between ourselves 
and our brethren throughtout the world,. and then let 
he effort be to promote the peace on earth and good, 
will amongst men. Plato, a thousand years ago, said, 
“ We do not know of any greater evil to the state than 
that which tears it asunder and makes it into a multi- 
tude of states, instead of one, nor of any higher per- 
fection than that which binds it together and makes it 
one ” and the page of history bore evidence to the 
truth of the statement of the philosopher. The 
speaker concluded as follows : Let us profit by the 
example of Athenian and of the great Greek republics, 
and not let the British Empire, the work of centuries, 
the aggregation of so many peoples of different races, 
all enjoying happiness under a beneficent constitution 
that offords the most perfect safeguard of individual 
and local liberty, combined with solidity and the 
greatest security for life, character and property ; let 
us not allow this great fabric to crumble to pieces, and 
its component parts return into their original elements, 
into isolation of nation from nation, of people from 
people, of continent from continent. Let us rather 
exert our most patriotic endeavors to bind it more clo- 
sely into perpetual union, and by so doing, and by 
cultivating the closest alliance with the nearest neigh- 
bor of England in Europe, and with the only, neighbor 
of Canada in America, bind the two greatest of civilized 
races, and the two continents of the most advanced 
civilization, by ties of friendship and trade, of art and 
of literature, into a great union that will bring almost 
within reach the realization of the Scottish poet’s noble 
dream of the day 

When man to man the world o’er 
Shall brithers be and a’ that. 



1885.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



11 



Mr. M. M. Tait then sang with fine effect Rule Bri- 
tannia and Mr. R. C. Smith responded to the toast in 
a brilliant speech. The readers of the University Ga- 
zette know to what a treat the society and its guests 
listened when we say that this speech was in Mr. 
Smith’s happiest vein, who upon resuming his seat was 
greeted with prolonged applause. He said that the 
subject of the toast embraced a great deal, for “ if he 
took unto himself the wings of the morning and flew 
to the uttermost part of the earth,” even there would 
he be within the spere of the British Empire. The 
subject of Imperial federation was now taking a great 
hold on the public mind, and in Canada there was no 
doubt a diversity of views as to whether we should be 
independent, more closely converted to the Mother 
Country, or absorbed by the great Republic south of 
us — in other words “ taken in.” There were many 
views on federation, amongst others that we should 
have a more extensive reciprocity in trade with England 
than with other countries, which did not themselves 
afford reciprocity, but whatever the outcome might be 
he for one preferred Canada to remain as a part of the 
British Empire. They were told by many that when 
the fruit became ripe it must drop from the tree, and 
that was a good argument, but it should also be remem- 
bered that when the fruit did drop it was either rotted 
or was devoured. He believed that the unity of the 
Empire presented a prospect of national aspiration, at 
least as glorious as any other scheme before us. If they 
looked for national aspirations, a great future, or a great 
past history, where could they find them more than 
in the traditions of England with her glorious struggle 
for liberty and justice ? 

Canada was proposed by Mr. C. J. Brooke, 1st Vice- 
President of the society. This speech was listened to 
with marked attention and was received with an enthus- 
iasm worthy the subject and the admirable manner in 
which it was given. Mr. Brooke, in opening, referred to 
the arms of the Dominion, where the English rose, the 
Scotch thistle, the Irish shamrock, and the Canadian 
maple leaf were blended together above the motto 
Concordia Sains. Continuing he said our contry had 
little to fear from foes without, but he hoped that her 
people would beware of foes from within — such foes 
as jealousy, bigotry and distrust, which might become 
terrible difficulties to the march of the country in 
progress. The record of the past few weeks had shown 
how easy it was to create a ditterence between the two 
great races, English and French. Loyal as the French- 
Canadian people were to Great Britain it looked as if 
they felt that they were not treated justly. It was then 
the duty of the English people to allay those feelings, 
to make the French people feel that there is no jealousy, 
and that both races should work harmoniously together 
for the great future which was in store for Canada. 

Mr. W. McLennan was then called on for a song 
and sang his own translation of the French chanson 
“ En Roulant ma Boulez Throughout the evening 
Mr. McLennan contributed very much to the pleasure 
of the company by singing several selections from the 
new McGill College song book whicli is now ready, 
and which he, with the assistance of Mr. Gould and a 
committee, has prepared. 

Mr. R. D. McGibbon, an ex-Vice-Pres. of the society, 



responded to this toast. Mr. Me. Gibbon’s great ability 
as a speaker is too well known in Montreal to need 
comment. His speech was probably the most moving 
one of the whole evening. After referring to his 
connection with the society and the benefits he had 
derived therefrom, he said: — That the lesson to be 
learned from the experience of the debating club, and 
the subsequent reversal or modification of the opinions 
we have formed and expressed, is one which L regard 
as to some extent appropriate to the toast you have 
asked me to reply to. It is the doctrine of toleration, 
the realization of the fact that others may possibly be 
right and we ourselves wrong — even when we feel 
more strongly that we are in the right — the ability to 
credit our opponents with honesty of purpose and 
integrity of motive. The thought which the mention 
of my country’s name gives rise to is just this one : that 
Canada needs at this moment, when she is passing 
through what is if not an actual crisis, at least a part 
of the national journey that is surrounded with diffi- 
culty and perplexity, that the gospel of toleration 
should be widely preached. Our Dominion has uncom- 
mon difficulties to contend against. Her climate is not 
the most genial, and there are other natural disadvan- 
tages to be overcome, but perhaps the most formidable 
lion in our path is the absence of homogeneity in our 
population. We have national, religious, lingual and 
sectional differences existing, and it must be confessed 
that the experience of the past and of the present does 
not invite us to hope for any immediate unification of 
our population in any of these respects. This being 
the case, does it not behoove us as Canadians, earnestly 
desiring and working for the good of our country, to 
do those who differ from us the justice of believing 
that their intentions are good though their judgments 
are mistaken, that their hearts are all right, however 
faulty their heads may be ? This, sir, I have said, is a 
truth which the operations of a society like our own 
serve to enforce, and it occurs to me, at the moment, 
that there is another. I believe the great distinguishing 
fault of our people to be that there is too little fredom 
of speech of the right kind. I make bold to say, further, 
that as a people we are to much shackled by the fetters 
of partyism. We have suffered, are suffering, and, 
probably, shall suffer, like other peoples, from unscru- 
pulous demagogues, who take advantage of popular 
passion to drag themselves out of their contemptible 
obscurity. To these no quarter should be given. Let 
every man speak out the truth that is in him. Our pub- 
lic life will be better and the future of the country more 
assured than it will be if the present despotism of party 
continues unnecessarily annihilating liberty of thought 
and conduct. Whether or not those responsible for 
the Act of Confederation considered that it was absolute 
and perfect and would endure for all time, I know 
not ; but it would be folly to deny that the people to- 
day do not consider it to be so. Our present political 
condition is acknowledged to be only temporary. It 
is unfair to charge with disloyalty any one who says 
that Canada’s future will lead her away from the Im- 
perial connection. I protest against these accusations. 
A Canadian’s first loyalty is to Canada. The empire 
may share our affections, our pride and our reverence, 
but our mother land is Canada, she has our love, and 



12 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1885. 



her interests are paramount. I believe this country has 
a great future, if her sons act their parts with true 
patriotism. Let us go slowly, prudently and cautiously. 
We are young and there is no hurry. It does not do 
to expect too much too quickly. Let us, the citiziens 
of Canada, who encircle this land with all our fondest 
hopes and ambitions, and to whom it is sacredly endear- 
ed by the holiest of ties and associations, have a care 
that the next change will endure for all time, and 
serve to make of us a people worthy the part we have 
already played, and honorable among nations. 

The University was then proposed by Mr. J. R. 
Murray, 2nd. Vice-president, in a very hue speech. 
After describing the high position occupied by his 
alma mater , McGill, in the world of education, he 
referred to a remark which lately appeared in the 
Gazette to the effect that the professors did not take 
that interest in the graduates and undergraduates, or 
use that influence which they might. He thought 
there were exceptions to this. He regretted that 
the graduates and the undergraduates did not avail 
themselves of their opportunities for social and intell- 
ectual intercourse to the full extent possible. How- 
ever, he was glad to see that the university club was 
now established, and he trusted that it would meet 
with the patronage it deserved. 

Prof. Mulgan, in rising to respond to this toast was 
received with deafening applause. He described in an 
amusing manner the similarities between the students 
of European and English universities, and those of 
McGill. He thanked the society in the name of the 
University, for the heartiness with which the toast had 
bpen drunk, and with which he himself, personally, 
had been received, and in conclusion said that although 
McGill was not troubled with a heavy purse, yet the 
lovers of education delighted to honour her as the 
leader in Canadian education. Prof. Bovey also res- 
ponded, and in the course of his remarks expressed his 
desire that there should be closer relations established 
between the professors and graduates of the Uni- 
versity. 

The Society was proposed by Mr. C. J. Doherty, in 
a short but very interesting speech. He referred to 
the great advantages to be gained from membership in 
it : every question worthy of discussion was admitted, 
members learned to respect the opinions of others, had 
many hurtful prejudices eradicated from their minds, 
were made nobler men because of these discussions, and 
better fitted to discharge their duties to their country 
and to themselves. The Society was the complement 
of the University and a cradle for Canadian patri- 
otism. 

There are few, if any, members of the society 
who can give expression to truly lofty sentiments 
more opportunely or more effectively than Mr. 
Doherty. 

A song, “ All for the sake of Eliza,” was then'given 
by Mr. McLennan and was very much enjoyed. 

Mr. Selkirk Cross, responded to this toast in an able 
manner. In the course of his speech he said that the 
demonstration was tangible proof of the good work of 
the Society which was now in the sixteenth year of its 
existence was doing. Many of its members had attained 
eminence, and all had been benefitted by their connec- 



tion with the Society. He demonstrated the power 
of eloquence by mentioning the names of Demosthenes, 
Pitt, Grattan and Gambetta, all of whom had done 
great things for their respective countries, and the 
Society’s object to cultivate this great accomplishment 
was highly commendable. 

After a song by Mr. Crankshaw, Sister Societies were 
proposed by Mr. Ritchie in a very humourous speech 
which kept the company in roars of laughter from 
beginning to end. Whether it was in his assumed 
anxiety over the religious training of the Graduates’ 
Society, or his exuberant display of affection towards 
the “ Little Benjamin,” the infantile club, Mr. Ritchie, 
was in every phase of his very diversified nature, 
happy in expression and funny as Mark Twain. There 
is no man whose absence would be more noted at the 
weekly meetings of the Society : in serious debate, he 
is a generous but worthy foeman, and at all times a 
right jolly good fellow. 

Revd. Mr. Newnham then sang “ The Oak and the 
Ivy” and Prof. McLeod responded to the toast on 
behalf of the Graduates’ Society, Mr. N. P. Yates on 
behalf of the Undergraduates’ Society, and Mr. W. H. 
Turner for the University Club. Prof. McLeod gave 
aninteresting account of the work of the society which 
he represented, Mr. Yates, expressed his gratification 
at the manner in which the toast had been received, 
and said that the Undergaduates’ Society was doing 
good work in preparing its members to take an active 
part in the work of the older men in the University 
Society. Mr. Turner, replying for the University club, 
gave the history of the formation of the club, which 
was now, after two years endeavor, established. He 
asked for the club the co-operation of all connected 
with McGill. 

The next toast was to The University Gazette, pro- 
posed by Mr. Oughtred and responded to by Mr. 
Colquhoun, the Editor-in-chief in a very able manner. 
In the course of his remarks, he referred to the value 
of the paper as an organ of the students of the Uni- 
versity, and appealed to the graduates present to give 
it their support by contributing to its columns and 
thus make it even more valuable and influential than 
it now is. Mr. Owens of the Montreal Gazette also 
responded in behalf of the press in general in a brief 
and felicitous speech. 

Midnight had now come and there only remained 
one toast upon the list. The Ladies weie proposed by 
Mr. Mackie. No higher praise can be given to this 
gentleman’s effort than to say, it was a fitting close to 
as brilliant a series of speeches as are often heard. Mr. 
Mackie claimed that the sentiment he proposed was to 
his hearers, more important and more dear than any 
of those to which the previous speakers had given 
utterance, for around it clustered all the dreams of 
empire and of patriotism, of education of society and 
of literature, whose realization is the proud boast of 
the enlightened world. The storm of applause which 
he received on resuming his seat showed that a noble 
sentiment had been nobly expressed. 

Mr. Frs. McLennan briefly responded ; Auld Lang 
Syne and God Save the Queen, brought to a close one 
ol the most enjoyable re-unions in which University 
men have participated for a long time. 



1885.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



13 



THE MEDICAL DINNER. 

The Medical dinner in the Windsor Hotel on 
Thursday, Dec. 3rd, was a most agreeable and success- 
ful affair, Mr. R. A. Kennedy, B.A., ’86, presiding, 
and the vice-chairmen being Messrs. W. J. McCuaig, 
T. J. Norman, and J. G. McCarthy. The Committee 
consisted of Messrs. J. A. Porter, B.A., F. J. Shep- 
herd, M.D., A. N. Worthington, A. D. Stewart, G. E. 
Fenwick, M.D., Geo. Ross, M.D., James Bell, M.D., 
R. F. Ruttan, M.D., R. J. B. Howard, M.D., A, J. 
Schmidt, W. J. McCuaig, T. J. Norman, W. F. 
Loucks, D. C. Baer and J. G. McCarthy. After an 
excellent menu had been discussed, the following 
toasts were enthusiastically received, being proposed 
by the gentlemen whose names precede them, and re- 
sponded to by those whose names come after. The 
Queen, Governor-General and Lieut.-Gov., Mr. Ken- 
nedy ; Mr. T. G. McGannon, “ President of the 
United States” — Dr. Anderson, U. S. Consul; Mr. 
Orton, “ Our University ” — Prof. Alex. Johnson ; W. 
G. Stewart, “ Our Benefactors” — G. W. Stephens, M. 
P.P., and Dr. McEachran ; Mr. J. A. Porter, “ Dean 
and Professors ” — Dr. Howard, Profs. Girdwood, 
Stewart, Mills, and others; Mr. T. W. Williams, 
“ Montreal General Hospital ” — Mr. Andrew Robert- 
son ; “ Sister Universities ” — Messrs. Lemming (Trin- 
ity), McVity (Kingston), Therrier (Victoria), and 
others ; “ Our Graduates” — Dr. Carr, Prof. McLeod, 
Dr. Rodger ; Dr. Roddick, “ Class of ’86 ” — Mr. A. 
N. Worthington; Mr. H. A. Lafleur, “Ladies” — 
Mr. Bradley; Mr. McCarthy, “The Press”— Mr. 
Colquhoun. The music, both by the orchestra and 
several of the students during the evening, was very 
fine. The freshman class were not present, having 
decided not to pay their footing- 



Sporting. 



.THE HOCKEY CLUB. 

The annual meeting of the Hockey Club was held 
on the evening of November 24th, Mr. C. P. Brown 
presiding, and the following officers were elected for 
the ensuing year: President, A. Weir, Ap. Sc.; 

Sec.-Treas., C. Swabey, Arts ; Captain, J. Kinloch, 
Med. Committee : Wilde and Taylor (Med.), Ste- 
phens (Arts), Kerry (Science,). The meeting 
was large and enthusiastic, and the outlook is 
more promising than it has been for some 
seasons. The committee is an energetic one, and 
they have the advantage of starting with a handsome 
balance in hand, due to the energy and attention of 
the retiring Secretary. They have already secured the 
Crystal Rink for practice on Saturdays from 9 to 1 1 
a.m., and on Thursdays from 6.30 to 7.30 p.m. Dur- 
ing the Christmas vacation, Wednesday, from 9 to 11 
a.m., will be substituted for Thursday. 



Personals. 



R. W. Waddell, B. A S. ’81, is' now on a ranche in 
Weld County, Cal., and doing well. 



J. Higgins, B.A. '85, is attending lectures in To- 
ronto University, not in Knox College. 

Mr. George C. Stephen, of the Director’s Board of 
the Gazette, is now in Philadelphia at the University 
of Pennsylvania. 

J. A. L. Waddell, C.E., B. A.S. ’82, now Professor 
of Mechanics at Tokio University, Japan, has recently 
published a work on “ Bridges.” 

Dr. Wm. Stephen has gone to practice his profession 
in South America. He sailed from Liverpool a month 
ago, and will fix his residence at Rosana, Argentine 
Republic. 

Our esteemed friend, Wm. Lochhead, B. A., ’85, is 
now at the Training Institute, Kingston. He has been 
appointed English and Science Master in Perth Col- 
legiate Institute for next year. 

Fred H. Powell, M.D., C.M. ’85, is at present walk- 
ing University College and St. Bartholomew’s Hospi- 
tal in London, Eng. He writes that he is the only 
representative of McGill at those hospitals. 

We are glad to see the genial Professor of Pathology 
is able to attend to duty again. We question if know- 
ing the exact pathological processes involved lessened 
one whit the twinges of the rheumatism in his knee. 



Between the Lectures. 



A question in Medical Jurisprudence: How are 

the sinews of war connected with the bone of conten- 
tion 1 and how do these affect the musselmans 1 

The rumor that Sir John Macdonald’s recent de- 
parture for England was due to impatience at the tardy 
appearance of the McGill song book is officially de- 
nied. 

We have at last found out why riding on the engine, 
even though it have a tender attachment, is not popu- 
lar among the ladies. The continual vibration of the 
locomotive shakes their hair-pins out. 

“ Say, Bob, do you know the street cars were stop- 
ped on the night of the Riel racket 1” 

“No ! were they? What for?” 

“Oh, only to let the passengers off.” 

After giving a number of statistical reports, an Am- 
erican editor adds : “ The quantity of whiskey con- 
sumed in the United States staggers us.” My dear 
fellow, don’t let that annoy you ; it’s enough to stag- 
ger anybody. 

Prof, in Physics. “ What object do you see now ?” 
Student, after some hesitation, “ It looks like a jackass, 
sir, but I think it is your shadow.” 

Prof. “ Hum. Another demonstration, sir, of the 
wide difference between substance and shadow.” 

“Say, Prof.,” said a Freshman to the lecturer, 
“ what makes a fellow’s heart sink when he’s in 
trouble ?” 

“ The gravity of the situation, of course,” was the 
eloquent rejoinder. 



14 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE, 



First class in geology: 

Professor — “ You were on the look out for specimens 
yesterday. How many of you have red sandstone?” 
Head Scholar — “ Can’t say about that, sir, but I can 
swear that father’s read Blackstone.” — 

Lowell Citizen : “ There are eighty-two glue fac- 
tories in this country, and with the present depression 
in all kinds of manufactures it would not surprise us 
if one or more of them gets stuck.” I suppose cement 
that for a joke. It’s a very gluemy one, anyway. I 
wonder if it paste to be a funnyman ? 

It is rumoured that the King of Denmark has pro- 
rogued the Rigsdag. There’s nothing alarming about 
that. Now if the Rig was going to prodag the Kings 
rogue, or the Rogue was going to dagking the Prorigs, 
or if even the Dag was going to — but I guess I had 
better stop as I couldn’t keep this up over twenty 
minutes without getting a trifle vague. 

An exchange advises us to “ treat our young children 
cordially.” We do — we do. Godfrey’s cordially. 

A young man, wrote a touching ode to liberty, which 
commenced : 

A bold-worded pseen rang out in the valley.” 
Imagine his horror and dismay when it appeared in 
the paper: 

< A bald headed deacon sat up in the gallery.” 

The following from an exchange shows human na- 
ture pretty well : “ A dentist advised a man to have a 
tooth taken out, assuring him that if he inhaled gas he 
would feel no pain. “ What is the effect of the gas?” 
“ It makes you insensible,” said the dentist, “ and you 
don’t know anything that takes place.” The man took 
out his money. “ Oh, never mind the fee until after- 
ward,” remarked the dentist. “ I wasn’t thinking of 
that,” said the patient ; “ I only wanted to see how 
much money I had.” 

“ For goodness sake, Mary,” asked the young lady’s 
mother at breakfast, what was the matter with you and 
Harry in the parlor last night ?” 

“ Why, mamma? What? inquired the daughter 
demurely. 

“ Why, you jowered and quarreled for half an hour, 
like a pair of pickpockets.” 

" Oh,” she replied, remembering the circumstances, 
“ Harry wanted me to take the big chair and I wanted 
him to take it because he was company, you know.” 

“ Well, what did you quarrel about ?” 

“ We didn’t quarrel, mamma; only he insisted that 
I should take it, and I wouldn’t.” 

How did you settle it finally ?” 

“ Well, mamma, we — we — we compromised, and 
both of us took it.” 

The mother had been a girl once herself. 

Grocer (to farmer) — I hear that you have met with a 
sad loss, Mr. Cornstalk. 

Mr. Cornstalk — Yes, six of my finest hogs died last 
week with cholera. 

Grocer — I understand your wife is dead, also. 

Mr. Cornstalk — Yes, she died week afore last. Mis- 
fortunes, they say, never come single. I could have got 
forty dollars a piece for them hogs. 



[1885. 



A youth by the name of Colquhoun, 

Went out by the light of the molquhoun 
To sing to his dear. 

But her pa, who was near. 

Soon put him to flight with his sholquhoun. 

A person who played on the psalter, 
Observing her brother to fsalter, 

To the youngster thus said. 

Why. if you’re afraid 

Of the thing, my dear fellow, I’ll hsalter. 



J\ ZMT^IE^IIEJSr, 

Hail Dresser and Wig Makes, 

1368 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 

WELLINGTON ARCADE, 
MONTREAL. 

Perfumery and Hair Goods kept in stock. Special attention for 
LADIES’ CHAMPOOING and CHILDREN’S HAIR CUTTING. 

Antiseptic Materials, 
Bandages, Etc., 

MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 

W. A. DYER & CO., 

Pharmaceutical & Dispensing: Chemists, 

14 & 16 Phillips Square, Cor. St Catherine St., 

MONTREAL. 

Bandages, Roller, Muslin. 

Bandages, Cotton. 

Bandages, Absorbent. 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze. 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent. 

Cotton Wool, Borated. 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated. 

Cotton Wool, Sublimated. 
Drainage Tubes. Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent. 

Gauze, Borated. 

Gauze, Carbolized. 

Gauze, Eucalyptol. 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze, Naphthalin. 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill ; Inhalers, Celluloid 
Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached. 

Jute, Absorbent. 

Jute, Carbolized. 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated ; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes ; 
Sponges, Antiseptic ; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain ; Sponges, 
Gamgee’s Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies’. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



MEN’S FURNISHINGS. 

For the Largest and Best Selected Stock of the following Goods, at Lowest Prices, 

Come to S. CARSLEY’S. 

GREY FLANNEL SHI RTS, BLUE FLANNEL SHIRTS, FANCY FLANNEL SHIRTS. 

All the above with Collar attached or without. 

CARDIGAN JACKETS, in all Sizes, Qualities and Kinds, 

At S. CARSLEY’S. 

CARDIGAN JACKETS WITHOUT SLEEVES. CARDIGAN JACKETS WITHOUT SLEEVES. 

CARDICAN JACKETS WITHOUT SLEEVES. 

At S. CARSLEY’S. 

) CARDIGAN JACKETS FROM OSe. TO *0.00 ( 

At S. CARSLEY’S. 

For MEN’S UNDERWEAR, in all imaginable makes, qualities and Sizes. 

Come to S. CARSLEY’S. 

Men's Canadian Undershirts, with Drawers to match, from 22c. up to 81.00, 

At S. CARSLEY’S. 

Men's Real Scotch Lambs' Wool I'ndersbirts, from 81.2# up to $4.20, 

At S. CARSLEY’S. 



S. CARSLEY, 



NO TRE DAME STREET, 



J.& E.McENTYRE, 

Merchant mr 

TAILORS, 



5] 1671 [i 



* U. 1 



mmmm 

MONTREAL. 






F 



M. 



. Yot 



MAN 




ON, 




I 



■M- 



New Scale of Prices 

THIS YEAR 

4FR STUDENTS jN- 

17 BLEUST ST. 



BICYCLES ! ! 

Lawn Tennis Sets, Foot 
Ralls, Boxing Gloves, 
Fencing Foils, 

Masks, &c. 

— ALSO — 

PRIZES OF ALL DESCRIPTION •*.• 

WEDDING, CHRISTMAS AND BIRTHDAY PRESENTS 

Fancy Goods, Electro Plate, &c. 

WATSON & PELTON, 

53 ST. SULPICE STREET. 



IE. .A.. GEBTH, 

IMPORTER OF 




Briar and Jfeerschauin Pipes, 



SDLTANS, KHEDIVES AND BEYS EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES IN BOIES OF 25. 

Try St\a.d.e33.ts 2v£is:t-CLre- 
Paces and other Cut Plugs from $1.00 upwards. 

1323 ST. CATHERINE ST„ QUEEN’S BLOCK. 





McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



GEO. BROWN & SONS, 

Taimas* 

jlfjirt nnb SoHaq fUanufatlmm, 

21 BLEUBY ST. 

Snow Shoe & Toboganing Suits, Tuques, Sashes. 
Stockings, (fee., (fee. 

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 

jSnrgiral Jnslruraenb. 

A FULL STOCK CONSTANTLY ON HAND 

IMPORTED DIRECT 

— FROM THE — 

Leading Manufacturers of the World, 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. 




384 ST. PAUL STREET. 



C. ASHFORD’S 

Cheap Book, Stationery, 

j^isriD 

MSI ©BOBS SE©B» 

MEDICAL BOOKS, 

Students’ Note Books, Dissecting Cases & Scalpels, 

[BY WEISS & SON], 

CHEAP FOR CASK. 

Books procured to order from England & the United States. 

6784 AND 680 DORCHESTER ST„ 

MONTREAL. 

PHOTOGBAPHY. 

Fcr Cabinei Photos, go to 

SUM ME RHA YES & WAL FORD 'S. 

For Croups go to 

SUMMERHAYES& W ALFORD’S. 

For Composition of Croups go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD'S. 

For all kinds of Photography go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD'S. 
SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleury Street. 



THE 

|Jiirlai|(l pHio^rapljic 

5 & 7 BLEURY STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

General Engravers , Lithographers, 
Printers and Publishers. 

This establishment is the oldest in Canada and is the 
largest and most complete of its kind in the Dominion, having 
every facility for executing 

A.LL KINDS 

OF 

•^Engraving and Fine Printings 

NOTES, DRAFTS, CHEQUES, BILLS OF EXCHANGE 
and all classes of BANK WORK, finely executed on 
safety or other paper of the latest and 
most improved kinds. 

BILLHEADS, BUSINESS CARDS, NOTE & LETTER 
HEADINGS, ENVELOPES 

and every description of commercial form, 

By Lithography or Letter Press Printing. 

SHOW CAROS, GLOSS LABELS, (OTTOX TIC- 
KETS, MAPS, CALENDARS, and EVERT SPECIES of 
COLOR PRINTING. 



PHOTO-LITHOGRAPHY 

Reproductions rapidly and clearly made. 

Photo-Engraving, 

BOOKS, PLANS. PEN DRAWINGS and MAPS, repro- 
duced suitable for ORDINARY PRINTER'S USE. 

PROCESS. 

We are the only firm in Canada Really Engraving 
subjects by this process, and can produce specimens of map 
work equal to the best work by U. S. artists. 

ELEOTROTYPING and STEREOTYPING 

In till tKelr several branches. 

Ball Programmes, Invitations, At Home and Visiting 
Cards, neatly and tastefully engraved and printed. 

SPECIAL DESIGNS MADE FOR 

MENU CARDS, ORESTS, MONOGRAMS, BUSINESS 
DIES, &c., &c. 

And all kinds of Paper, Envelopes and Cards 

Embossed ana Illuminated. 



