


JWcGlbb FORTNIGHTby 



A Fortnightly Journal of Literature, University Thought and Event. 



VOL. hi. 



MONTREAL, JANUARY 25, 1894. 



No. 8 




$ EDITORIAL BOARD & 



Editor-in-chief— Homer M. Jaquays, B.A. (App. Sc. *96). 
Secretary — M iss L. E. Armstrong (Donalda ’95). 

C, H Zink (Com. Med. and Ver. Sc. *95). Wm. Donahue, B.A. (Law ’96). 
H. M. Kinghorn, B.A., M.D. (Grads. Soc.) E. Commins, B.A. (Med. ’95). 

C. J. Hickson (Arts ’95). 



* BUSINESS BOARD & 



E. B. Devlin B.A., (Law ’95;, Chairman . 

A. F. Edwards (Med *96). Miss E. A. Hammond (Donalda ’96). 

A. R. Holden, B.A. (Sc. *95). J. C. Cutting (Com. Med. and Vet. Sc/95). 

A. E. Gordon (Arts *96). 



The McGill Fortnightly is published by the Students of the University 
on the Friday of every second week during the College Session. 

The annual subscription is £1.00, payable strictly in advance. Remittance to 
be made to the Chairman of the Business Board, 85 Union Avenue, Montreal. 
Single copies may be obtained at Wm. Drysdale & Co.'s, E. M. RenouPs, Cyrus 
Ashford’s, Chapman’s and W. Foster Brown’s, Booksellers. Price, 10 cents. 
Address Contributions to Editor-in-Chief, 963 Dorchester Street, Montreal. 



EDITORIAL COMMENTS. 



An IMPORTANT step has been, or is about to be 
taken by the Young Men’s Christian Association of 
McGill. For some time past the need of more 
spacious quarters and more attractive surroundings 
has been gradually increasing, until it has now reached 
such a point that all interested feel that some pro- 
vision must be made suitable to the wants of so 
important an organization. Through the kindness 
of friends and the hard work of its members, the hopes 
of the Association seem about to be realized, for pro- 
bably before this reaches our readers the concluding 
steps that will make it the possessor of the house and 
lot at the corner of Sherbrooke street and McGill 
College Avenue will have been taken. This site is a 
most desirable one, being as it is on the thoroughfare 
for students going and coming from College, and the 
house, though not in every way perfect, will serve its 
purposes admirably until the affairs of the Association 
admit of the erection of the ideal building. 

It would take some time to enumerate the almost 
endless difficulties that have been overcome to secure 
this end, and too much credit cannot be given those few 
students to whose perseverance and energy the pre- 
sent success of the Association is so largely due. It 
is worthy of notice that this is the first of the student 



organizations in McGill to take so important a step, 
and it is an excellent example, — an example that 
the dther societies may well strive to emulate, — of 
what well directed work will accomplish. 

The Association is fortunate in its trustees, — Messrs* 
A. F. Gault, Hugh McLennan, C. J. Fleet and Prof. 
Carus-Wilson, as it is largely owing to the kindness 
of these gentlemen that proper headquarters are so 
soon to be furnished. 

We beg to congratulate our fellow-students, and 
wish them all success. We expect much of them in 
their new surroundings, and, if we may judge from 
past work, disappointment will not be our lot. 



The FORMAL opening of the Medical Buildings 
on January 8th marks the beginning of another epoch 
in the history of the Medical Faculty, for it now enters 
upon its work, thoroughly equipped in all its branches 
of study. 

Heretofore, though laboratory and clinical work 
had received in so far as was possible the attention 
they deserved, and though more advantages in practi- 
cal work had been given to students at McGill than 
at many other medical schools, it was not felt that 
practical work had even approached the stage of per- 
fect development. 

Since the birth in the year 1824, of the Faculty 
then known as the Montreal Medical Institution, the 
boast of professors, graduates and undergraduates has 
always been that men have received their Degrees 
only after a thorough and sound course, and that pre- 
ference has been given to bedside instruction rather 
than to didactic lectures. As a result of this, the 
practical method of teaching, it has been necessary 
from time to time to enlarge the building, increased 
accommodation being needed for the ever-increasing 
number of students and for larger laboratories. 

It is now generally recognized that the best methods 
of instruction demand that a knowledge of Anatomy 
should be acquired in the dissecting room; of Chem- 
istry, in the laboratory ; of Histology, by cutting sec- 
tions and examining them microscopically; of Physio- 
logy, by comparing the functions of organs in the 



130 



MCGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



lower animals with the functions of similar organs in 
our own bodies. One is therefore not surprised, on 



..peaks well for the character of the entertainment. 

It is rather late now for detailed criticism, so that we 

11 ♦i,„ l cV,all mnfine ourselves to brief mention of some of 

entering the Medical buildings, to see practically the shal althnncrh it ;« 

, , , , , . i Hip nrincioal features of the concert, although it is 

whole space, except the lecture rooms, devoted the p P numbers which are mo re deserv- 

laboratories, where the student may gain his in forma- not easy M A F u 

tion by practical work. With its additional equip- ing of praise than the o ers . • • Y 

ments (probably equal to any on this Continent), and added much to tiepeasureo e eve 

the attraction that its reputation for sound teaching capital recitations. e egan wi os 

1 His prf-nnem : but 



Drummond’s well-known dialect-poem ; but owing 
to some temporary derangement of the electric lights, 
and the consequent supervention of a few moments 
of the blackest darkness, he did not finish it, and 
recited instead “ Hamish O Brien. Later in the even- 
ing, Mr. Heney’s“ Election speech in the Gatineau 
district ” done to the very life proved one of the 
hits of the programme. So too did the solo by Mr. 
Harvey, “ The Alabama Coon,” with its excellently 
rendered chorus. The other solo numbers : Mr. E. A. 
Burke’s “ Life of a Bandit,” Mr. Heward’s banjo solo 
(on two instruments), and Mr. Harwood’s selections on 
the coffee-pot, were all most favourably received, as 
was also the violinist, Mr. Walther, whose playing 
lent additional variety and interest to the programme. 
The Banjo Club did particularly good work in its 
first selection, and surpassed itself in the encore , which 
In ANOTHER COLUMN we publish an announcement I Wftg a mos j- successful bit of crescendo and diminuendo 
of the concert to be given in this city on February playing . T he Glee Club achieved perhaps its great- 
7 th next, by the Glee, Banjo, and Mandolin Clubs of egt success in „ j ohnny Schmoker,” but sang well in 
Toronto University. other numbers> 

This is the first time that the clubs mentioned Speaking generally, it may be said that the concert 
have given Montreal an opportunity to hear them; of the Glee and Banjo Club has certainly not fallen, 
but their fame has preceded them, and we doubt not ^his ye ar, below the standard of previous seasons, 



has long exerted on students, there is every reason 
to expect that our Faculty of Medicine will advance 
with still greater strides in the future than it has in 
the past. 

Both as a formal and a social function, the meeting 
of January 8th was successful in every respect. 1 he 
speeches were excellent, and we regret that space will 
not permit the FOkTNIGHTLY to print them in full. 
The arrangements were perfect, and reflect credit on 
those having them in charge. We cannot let the 
opportunity pass without thanking Mr. J. H. F. 
Molson for so generously giving even more than was 
at first supposed to be sufficient, to place the Faculty 
in the eminently sound position that it occupies 
to-day. 



that their performance here will fully justify what 
report says of those given elsewhere. 

We trust that there will be a large attendance, 
both of citizens and students, at the forthcoming 
concert, and also that our Toronto friends, although 
they do not come by special invitation, may receive 
a cordial welcome at the hands of our undergraduates, 
and may enjoy their stay in this city 



while in some respects, notably ensemble and dash, 
it has probably not yet been equalled at McGill. 



CONCERT BY 



THE GLEE 
CLUB. 



AND BANJO 



CONTRIBUTIONS. 

OPENING OF THE NEW MEDICAL BUILD- 
INGS. 

Tuesday, January 8th, 1895, will long be remem- 
bered by those who are interested in the affairs of 
McGill, and especially by those who are closely con- 
nected with the Medical Faculty. On that day the 



The concert given on the nth inst., by the above new buildings, given by J. H. R. Molson, Esq., were 
Club, was one which every well-wisher of McGill has formally declared open by His Excellency the Earl 
reason to recall with satisfaction. It formed an of Aberdeen. 

appropriate close to the series of successful perform- The ceremony, which took place in Lecture Room 
ances given during the recent holiday tour of the No. 3, was presided over by His Excellency, who, im- 
Club, being itself eminently successful, notwithstand- mediately after the procession had entered fiomthe 
ing the untoward weather. That such, and so many j Library, called upon Rev. Dr. Cornish to open the pro- 
people should have been attracted by the concert is ceedings with prayer, after which Dr. Craik, Dean of 
one of the constantly recurring signs, that public the Faculty, of Medicine, delivered the following ad- 
interest, great as it already is, in everything relating to dress. He said : “ Your Excellencies, governors, vice- 
McGill, is steadily increasing ; and that they should principal, fellows of corporation, professors, graduates 
have enjoyed themselves, as they evidently did. undergraduates, ladies and gentlemen, —It is with a 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



feeling of pleasure, amounting almost to exultation, 
thatl rise as the representative of the Faculty of Medi- 
cine of McGill University, to welcome you as friends 
come to rejoice with us at the completion and opening 
of our new and enlarged buildings. To you, my Lord, 
and to Her Excellency the Countess of Aberdeen, 
we would beg to offer a special and a grateful wel- 
come, inasmuch as you have been graciously pleased 
to honour us by your presence. We recognize in this 
act of kindness another proof of that large-hearted 
sympathy which has caused Your Excellencies to in- 
terest yourselves in so many phases of Canadian life, 
and which has won for you the love and respect of a 
loyal Canadian people. As this is an occasion on 
which it is fitting that we should rejoice, it is cause for 
gladness that the progress of our Faculty has been 
such as to make enlargement of our buildings an 
absolute necessity ; and it is no less a cause for glad- 
ness that, when the necessity for increased accom- 
modation was actually barring our further advance, 
the barrier has been removed and our onward pro- 
gress again made possible. There is much in the his- 
tory and progress of a school or university which may 
not inaptly be compared to the life of an individual. 
There is a period of comparatively helpless infancy 
in both, and if this period be survived, it is likely to 
be followed by one of growth and development, lead- 
ing, under favorable conditions, to a. more or less 
vigourous maturity and to a long career of activity 
and usefulness. But there is also a reverse side to 
this picture. The institution, like the individual, may 
die in its infancy from inherent weakness, from in- 
jury or from neglect ; or it may drag on for a time a 
feeble existence, till it ultimately dies from continued 
stress of circumstances, or from the habitual neglect 
or ignorance of the laws of life and health, which 
apply no less to institutions than to living men and 
women. Let us see how far the picture will serve to 
illustrate the history and progress of our own school.’’ 
Dr. Craik then gave an interesting history of the 
Faculty, tracing its origin from the School of Medi- 
cine which, later on, was joined to McGill University, 
and enlarging upon its progress from then until the 
present day. Continuing, he said : — 

“From 1884 to 1889 the number of students re- 
mained nearly the same, the number in 1888-89 being 
227. In 1889-90 the number increased to 256, in 
1890-91 to 261, in 1891-92 to 291, and in 1892-93 
the number reached 3 1 2. We were again face to face 
with.the old difficulty of overflowing buildings, and had 
again to look for the means of providing increased 
accommodation. Our difficulties in this instance 
were even greater than in 1885, for, to afford room 
for additional buildings it would be necessary to pur- 
chase the land adjoining the college property, and 
which was valued at $25,000. The required new 



131 



buildings were estimated to cost $30,000, making a 
total of $55,000 required to serve our purpose. We 
laid our case before the Board of Governors, asking 
them to acquire the necessary land and to allow us to 
borrow from our endowment fund the thirty thou- 
sand dollars required to erect the necessary buildings. 
What was our surprise and delight when Mr. John 
Henry Molson (now our senior governor), with scarce- 
ly a moment’s hesitation, asked to be allowed to 
relieve us of the whole burden, by placing at our 
disposal the munificent sum of sixty thousand 
dollars, a sum greater by five thousand dollars 
than the whole estimated cost. It is difficult to 
find words fitly to characterize such princely gener- 
osity. To it we owe the erection of the building in 
which we are now assembled and the ground upon 
which it stands ; and to it also we owe the comfort- 
able accommodation of the rapidly increasing num- 
ber of students, for last year the number was 350, 
and this year it has already reached 400. It is matter 
for regret that Mr. Molson is not with us to-day to 
receive in person the thanks of the Faculty ; but he 
is well represented by Mrs. Mo’son — that part 
of him which he himself is proud to own as his 
better half — a lady from whom the University has 
also in other departments received rich benefactions, 
and our thanks couid not possibly be conveyed to Mr. 
Molson through a more welcome channel. It 
remained only for our chancellor, Sir Donald Smith, 
at the Convocation in 1893, by one of his many acts 
of magnificent bounty, to fill our cup full to over- 
flowing by the endowment of the chairs of pathology 
and hygiene with the sum of fifty thousand dollars 
each, thus placing our Faculty, so far as can be 
foreseen, in a position to carry on and to extend its 
work without financial anxiety. 

“ I fear that I have wearied my audience by my long 
and somewhat detailed account of the origin, the 
struggles, the growth and the ultimate triumphs of 
our Faculty, but I have thought that on an occasion 
such as this, the history should be made fairly com- 
plete, and I shall only ask of you to bear with me a 
minute or two longer while I endeavour to point its 
moral. 

“We may be asked; what have been the secrets of 
our success? There have been no secrets. We have 
succeeded because we have tried to deserve and to 
achieve success ; and when taxed beyond our powers, 
well tried friendship helped us, and we have been 
guided by those principles which should always com- 
mand success in every worthy enterprise. We have, 
with honest purpose, taken advantage of such circum- 
stances as were useful and necessary in our work. 
The large field for clinical work and observation 
which our school has enjoyed since its commencement 
in the wards of the Montreal General Hospital has 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



132 



been an important factor in our success, and supple- 
mented, as it now is, by an equally large field in the 
wards of the Royal Victoria Hospital, our Faculty 
and students have at their command resources 
in this direction which cannot anywhere be excelled. 
Moreover, the interests of the Faculty have generally 
been guarded by practical and far-seeing men, 
men not merely learned in their profession, but 
endowed with sagacity, administrative ability and 
business tact ; qualities without which no enterprise, 
however highly favoured, can long hope to succeed. It 
has endeavoured also to supply to the community that 
of which it was really in need, and which was, there- 
fore, always in demand, and has striven to make its 
graduates sound, sensible, well-trained and well- 
equipped men, fit to be entrusted with human life and 
health. It has never allowed itself to lower its stan- 
dard below that which would test the powers of aver- 
age men, nor to raise it as high, or to hedge it about 
with such unreasonable requirements as to keep out 
those that, with patience and intelligent help, will 
often, from dull beginnings, develop into the bright- 
est ornaments of the profession. And lastly, we have 
always had faith in our Faculty and in our University. 
When we have met with misfortunes, they have not 
made us unduly despondent, nor when success has 
smiled upon us has it made us arrogant ; but we have 
kept steadily in view the time when our Faculty should 
leave doubt and uncertainty behind, and look forward 
to an assured and prosperous future. We hope and 
trust that that time has arrived ; and we hope also that 
the future of the Faculty and of the University shall 
be to the past as the bright rays of the noonday sun 
to the feeble and uncertain light of a beclouded 
moon.” 

“ I have now the honour to present to Your Excel- 
lency, on behalf of Mr. Molson, and on behalf of the 
Faculty of Medicine of McGill University, this key. 
It is only a modest little key, but in a figurative sense 
it may do great things, if it shall serve to open our 
doors to public confidence and appreciation, and to 
open them again in sending out, for generations to 
come, able and worthy graduates to carry health and 
help to suffering humanity, and to be a source of 
pride and honour to their alma mater ” 

His Excellency then spoke as follows : — 

“The opening remark of the address to which we 
have just listened reminded me, that in order ade- 
quately to describe the component parts of this dis- 
tinguished and representative audience, quite a con- 
siderable category of designations would need to be 
employed. Unfortunately I omitted to take a note 
of the list, and, therefore, I shall adopt the safe course 
of addressing the audience under the time-honoured 
and comprehensive title of ‘ ladies and gentlemen.’ 

‘•‘To-day we are setting up one of the landmarks 



of the progress and extension of this University, and 
that, too, in a department which in the most eminent 
and essential manner entitles a seat of learning to the 
noble designation of ‘university, ’ because this great 
science, this great art which we are celebrating to-day 
is emphatically of world-wide application, and is 
limited only by the needs of the human race. So 
wide is its scope, so numerous are its ramifications, 
that it is indeed necessary to employ a common 
language, recognized and understood by all its 
members, in order that the application and ad- 
ministration of the science may be duly provided 
for and carried on. 

“Well might the Dean say that the occasion is 
one for thankfulness, and I feel that, having the 
honour of being the official visitor of the University, 
I am only voicing the thoughts of the unofficial 
visitors who are here in such large numbers, when 
I say that we heartily congratulate the University and 
those on whom the management of its affairs specially 
devolves, upon this interesting and notable occasion. 
Those who belong to the medical profession may well 
be proud of it, and we who are outside of the pro- 
fession — outside, at least, except in the important 
particular of furnishing the material upon which its 
votaries are entitled to perform their experiments* 
— we, too, are proud of the profession* not only because 
of its fame and utility, but because of the help and 
encouragement which it gives to the development of 
all that is unselfish and noble and heroic. That is a 
theme which might well be enlarged upon, but the 
mention of which is like a truism. On such an occa- 
sion as this we may at least recall, in passing, the 
grounds for these feelings, and expressions of thankful- 
ness and congratulations the occasion itself naturally 
calls for; and while I am touching upon that aspect 
of the matter, I cannot refrain from referring to the 
contribution which has been made in the literature of 
to-day to this particular topic ; — I mean the nobility 
of the medical profession. I refer to a work which 
those who have already read it will admit may be 
counted as a classical contribution to English litera- 
ture, the book called ‘ Beneath a Bonnie Briar Bush. 
Characters appear in that book which we shall 
remember and claim as friends, and among the most 
eminently attractive of them is the parish physician 
of the district which the story describes, Dr. William 
Maclure. 1 he narrative brings out in his character 
the typical qualities which we look for in the true 
physician, and one of these I cannot help alluding to. 
The life of a poor woman, the wife of a labouring man, 
is despaired of. The husband, who has rarely been 
known previously to open his mouth in speech, is 
moved by his distress to make earnest and touchingly 
urgent appeal to the doctor to do something to save 
his wife. The doctor dares not give him any 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



133 



encouragement ; he knows no means by which her 
life can be saved except by an operation by a famous 
and skillful surgeon ; but that is a matter of a hundred 
guineas, and where is the fee to come from ? He 
finds, however, a farmer — a Scottish farmer, too — 
who is prepared to provide the necessary payment- 
The next morning, in answer to a telegram, the 
Queen’s surgeon appears, and the two doctors drive 
to the cottage. But a river has to be forded ; it is 
in flood, and in passing through it, the great sur- 
geon, though no coward, is affected by the terrific 
surging and swirling of the waters over the ford, and 
protests against going further. ‘ We shall be lost,’ 
he cries. His companion, the country doctor, replies : 

‘ Lost you may be sooner or later if you shirk your 
duty, but cross the river this day, you shall.’ They 
do cross it, and the operation is performed with 
success. When the doctors parted, the poor people 
are delighted by hearing the great surgeon say to 
the local doctor : ‘ I am proud to have met you ; 
you are an honour to our profession.’ The author 
adds that the surgeon declined to take the fee, but, 
perhaps, this was an instance of mere eccentricity. 

“ The Dean of the Faculty, in his most interesting 
and admirable resume and. description of the various 
events which have culminated in this noble occasion, 
alluded to the fact that troubles will occur, even in 
connection with the Medical department of a Univer- 
sity. I presume that the Dean referred, not to medi- 
cal troubles, but to financial troubles in relation to the 
ever-increasing needs of a great institution. We 
have already had such a splendid illustration of 
noble generosity, especially associated with the names 
of Mr. Molson and Sir Donald Smith, that we can 
but speak in terms of thankful congratulation, and in 
terms of cordial appreciation such as have been so 
appropriately addressed to the lady (Mrs. Molson) 
who has graced the occasion with her presence to-day. 
But, after all, it may not be out of place to remember 
that the work has not reached finality. There may 
be the need and the opportunity for future benefac- 
tions. The University is not grasping or voracious ; 
it only asks for what is needed. It indeed occupies 
the attitude which was well expressed by a worthy 
Scotch woman, who, when asked what her require- 
ments for a livelihood were, replied that she would 
be content with ‘ a competency ;’ and when the further 
question was put : ‘ What do you mean by a compe- 
tency ?’ answered, ‘Just always a little more than I 
have got’ — a most reasonable aad natural desire on 
the part of any active university. 

“ We are looking forward, I am sure, with great 
interest to the next phase of these proceedings. I 
suppose we ought not to have grudged Dr. Osier to 
Baltimore; as a matter of fact, probably we do grudge 
him; but if within the borders of the United States 



they could not find the man required for such a post 
it was perfectly natural and reasonable that they 
should come to Canada. 

“That is a principle which I think may always be 
safely adopted, — that where a person is required for 
any particular post, you should search not only in 
the country in which the institution exists, but the 
world over, for the right man to fill the right place. 

I am sure that in the case of Dr. Osier they have 
succeeded, and we may at least claim the satisfaction 
of the fact that Dr. Osier, whose career we are sure 
will become more and more brilliant, went through 
the earlier stages of his academical life in the Uni- 
versity of McGill. 

“ I cannot conclude even these few informal observ- 

» 

ations, addressing, as I am, among the audience a 
band of young men to whose career we look forward 
as one which will be a credit to themselves, their 
university, and their country, without referring to 
the fact that we have had brought before us during 
the past few weeks a notable and eminent example 
of all that goes to make up a noble career — a stimu- 
lus and an incentive, especially to young men equip- 
ping themselves for the battle of life, to that devo- 
tion to duty and that sacred ambition which seeks, 
not mere honour and distinction, but the welfare of 
the human race, and of the country in which God 
has placed us.” 

Prof. W. Osier of the Johns Hopkins University 
Baltimore, next stepped to the front of the platform 
receiving a perfect ovation as he did so. When the 
applause and cheers had subsided, he proceeded to 
speak upon “ teaching and thinking, — the two func- 
tions of a medical school.” He remarked that many 
things had been urged against our nineteenth cen- 
tury civilization, and having referred to some of the 
changes which it had brought about, he said that 
these changes were as naught in comparison with the 
remarkable increase in man’s physical well-being. 
The sorrows and troubles might not have been mat- 
erially increased, but pain and suffering, though not 
abolished, had been assuaged as never before, and 
the share of each in the weltschmerz had been enor- 
mously lessened. Sorrows and griefs were compan- 
ions sure, sooner or later, to join us in our pilgrimage, 
and we had become, perhaps, more sensitive to them, 
and, perhaps, less amenable to the old-time remedies 
of the physicians of the soul ; but the pains and 
woes of the body, to which doctors administered, 
were decreasing at an extraordinary rate, and in a 
way that made one fairly gasp in hopeful anticipation. 
Having briefly alluded to some of the advances 
which have been made in medical science during 
the last half-century, he said it was no idle challenge 
that physicians threw out to the world, when they 
claimed that their mission was of the highest and 



134 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



noblest kind, not alone in curing disease, but in edu- 
cating the people in the laws of health and in pre- 
venting the spread of plagues and pestilences. Nor 
could it be gainsaid that of late years the record of , 
medical men as a body had been more encouraging 
in its practical results than those of the other learned 
professions. The processes of disease are so complex 
that it was excessively difficult to search out the 
laws which controlled them, and, although medical 
science had seen a complete revolution in its ideas, 
which had been accomplished by the new school of 
medicine, it was only an earnest of what the future had 
in store. The public must not be discouraged by a 
few failures. The thinkers who were doing the work 
were on the right path, and it was no vain fancy that 
before the twentieth century was very old there 
might be effective vaccines against many of the con- 
tagious diseases. The total abolition of the infec- 
tious group could not be expected, and for many 
years to come there would remain hosts of bodily 
ills, even among preventible maladies, to occupy the 
physician’s labours. Dr. Osier then proceeded : “ In 

teaching men what disease is, how it may be pre- 
vented, and how it may be cured, a university is ful- 
filling one of its very noblest functions. The wise 
instruction and the splendid example of such men as 
Holmes, Sutherland, Campbell, Howard, Ross and 
MacDonnell, and others, have carried comfort into 
thousands of homes throughout the land. The bene- 
fits derived from the increased facilities for the teach- 
ing of medicine, which have come with the great 
changes made here and at the hospitals during the 
past few years, will not be confined to the citizens 
of this town, but will be widely diffused and felt in 
every locality to which the graduates of this school 
may go ; and every gift which promotes higher medi- 
cal education, and which enables the medical facul- 
ties throughout the country to turn out better doc- 
tors, means fewer mistakes in diagnosis, greater skill 
in dealing with emergencies, and the saving of pain 
and anxiety to countless sufferers and their friends. 
The physician needs a clear head and a kind heart ; 
his work is arduous and complex, requiring the ex- 
ercise of the very highest faculties of the mind, 
while constantly appealing to the emotions and finer 
feelings. At no time has his influence been 
more potent, at no time has he been so powerful a 
factor for good, and as it is one of the highest possible 
duties of a university to fit men for this calling, so 
will it be your highest mission, students of medicine, 
to carry on the never-ending warfare against disease 
and death, better equipped, abler men than your pre- 
decessors, but animated with their spirit and sus- 
tained by their hope, for the hope of every creature 
is the banner that we bear. The other function of a 
university is to think. Teaching current knowledge 



in all departments, teaching the steps by which the 
status prce sens has been reached, and teaching how 
to teach from the routine work of the various college 
faculties, which may be done in a perfunctory man- 
ner by men who have never gone deeply enough in- 
to their subjects to know that really thinking about 
them is in any way important. What I mean by 
the thinking function of a university is that duty 
which the professorial corps owes to enlarge the 
boundaries of human knowledge. Work of this sort 
makes a university great, and alone enables it to ex- 
ercise a wide influence on the minds of men. We 
stand to-day at a critical point in the history of this 
Faculty. The equipment for teaching, to supply 
which has taken years of hard struggle, is approach- 
ing completion, and with the co-operation of the 
General and of the Royal Victoria hospitals, students 
can obtain in all branches a thorough training. We 
have now reached a position in which the higher 
university work may, at any rate, be discussed, and 
towards it progress in the future must trend. It may 
seem to be discouraging, after so much has been 
done and so much has been so generously given, to 
say that there remains a most important function to 
foster and sustain ; but this aspect of the question 
must be considered when a school has reached a cer- 
tain stage of development. In a progressive institu- 
tion the changes come slowly. The pace may not 
be perceived by those most concerned, except on 
such occasions as the present, which serve as land- 
marks in its evolution. The men and methods at 
the old Cote Street School were better than those 
with which the Faculty started ; we and our ways at 
the new building on University street were better 
than those of Cote street, and now you of the pre- 
sent Faculty teach and work much better than we 
did ten years ago. Everywhere the old order 
changeth, and happy those who change with it. 
Teachers who teach current knowledge are not nec- 
essarily investigators*; many have not had the need- 
ful training ; others have not the needful time. The 
very best instructor for students may have no con- 
ception of the higher lines of work in his branch, and, 
contrariwise, how many brilliant investigators have 
been wretched teachers ? In a school which has 
reached this stage, and wishes to do thinking as well 
as teaching, men must be selected who are not only 
thoroughly au courant with the best work in their 
department the world over, but who also have ideas, 

with ambition and energy to put them into force, 

men who can add, each one in his sphere, .to the 
stoie of the world’s knowledge. Men of this stamp 
alone confer greatness upon a university. They 
should be sought far and'wide ; an institution which 
wraps itself in Strabo’s cloak, and does not look be- 
yond the college gates in selecting professors, may get 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



135 



good teachers, but rarely great thinkers. One of the 
chief difficulties in the way of advanced work is the 
stress of routine class and laboratory duties, which 
often saps the energies of men capable of higher 
things. There are two essential provisions: first, 

to give the professors plenty of assistance, so that 
they will not be worn out with teaching ; and, sec- 
ond, to give encouragement to graduates and others 
to carry on researches under their direction. With 
a system of fellowships and research scholarships a 
university may have a body of able young men, who, 
on the outposts of knowledge, are exploring, survey- 
ing, defining and correcting. Their work is the out- 
ward and visible sign that a university is thinking. 
With a group of bright young minds, well trained in 
advanced methods, not only is the professor himself 
stimulated to do his best work, but he has to keep 
far afield and to know what is stirring in every part 
of his own domain. With the wise co-operation of 
the university and the hospital authorities, Montreal 
should become the Edinburgh of America, a great 
medical centre to which men will flock for sound 
learning, whose laboratories will attract the ablest 
students, and whose teaching will go out into all 
lands, universally recognized as of the highest and of 
the best type. Nowhere is the outlook more en- 
couraging than at McGill. What a guarantee for 
the future does the progress of the past decade 
afford! No city on this continent has so liberally 
endowed higher education. There remains now to 
foster that indefinable something, which, for want of 
a better term, we call the ‘university spirit,’ a some- 
thing which a rich institution may not have, and 
with which a poor one may be saturated, a some- 
thing which is associated with men and not with 
money, which cannot be purchased in the market or 
grown to order, but which comes insensibly with 
loyal devotion to duty and to high ideals, and with- 
out which Nehustan is written on its portals.” 

Professor Johnson, being called upon by His Excel- 
lency, was received with cheers. The Acting Principal 
said that he was there as the representative of the 
University and the other Faculties, and he could not 
express tco fully their congratulations upon the com- 
pletion of the new building which is to be occupied 
by the Medical Faculty of McGill. They rejoiced at 
the completion of a building that did credit to McGill 
and the University’s noble and generous benefactors. 
Montreal and, indeed, the whole Dominion, he be- 
lieved, had reason to be proud of the[McGill School of 
Medicine. Professor Johnson then proceeded to speak 
of the thoroughness that had at all times characterized 
the operations of the Faculty that was being honoured 
to-day, and he had no doubt that this high standard, 
both as regards studies and results, would be rigidly 
maintained in the future. The Acting Principal, 



although pleased with what had been done, thought 
that still better things would be done by this Faculty 
in the years to come. He hoped that the day was 
not distant when the two degrees could be taken in 
a term of six years. This could be done, he thought, 
if the young men did not have to first learn how to 
learn. No branch of science had made greater pro- 
gress than Medicine, the study of which was the same 
as the study of physics, and the progress in the one 
was as great as in the other. The professor con- 
cluded his address by saying thathe-would be in favour 
of establishing prizes that would entitle clever and 
worthy graduates to travel and study in foreign lands, 
and eventually bring back the knowledge thus ac- 
quired, placing the same at the disposition of their 
Alma Mater and country. 

Sir William Dawson remarked that for thirty-eight 
years he had the gratification of following with inter- 
est and pleasure the growth and progress of the Med- 
ical Faculty, and of taking a certain share in promot- 
ing its interests in connection with the University* 
He had seen its growth from the time when there 
were 50 or 60 students in the old brick building on 
Cote street, to the present, when there were 400, with 
the magnificent class rooms and laboratories which 
were opened that day. This great growth appeared 
to him to have been distinctly imparted by the earnest- 
ness and the ability of the deans, who had control 
of the Faculty, and their colleagues all through that 
time. He did not think that in an educational work 
with which he had been connected he had ever met 
a more earnest and devoted set of men than those in 
the'McGill Medical Faculty. Another element which 
he thought had contributed very much to the recent 
benefactions to the Faculty was the character of the 
graduates it had been sending out. It had sent out 
many distinguished professional men, of whom Dr. 
Osier might be taken as a type and a most brilliant 
example. It had also sent out a very large number of 
what might be called ordinary and usefulpractitioners; 
and those who had lived in Canada for any length of 
time, and had visited the outlying districts, knew how 
much of the comfort of the people depended on the 
thoroughly well-trained medical man of the country. 
In this the McGill Medical School, without disparage- 
ment to any other institution, had, he ventured to say, 
borne a very large share. In the medical student of to- 
day was the medical graduate of to-morrow, who was 
to spend his life in doing all he could to mitigate hu- 
man suffering and save human life. Even if a medical 
man’s work were with him a professional work, it was 
a great and glorious mission, in which his heart, 
as well as his interest, had to enter in order to 
make it that profession which it ought to be and 
which would give the greatest success. Sir William 
then, congratulated Dean Craik on the event of the 



136 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



day and on the presence of the Governor General 
and Lady Aberdeen. He thought that they also 
had reason to congratulate themselves upon having 
been able to borrow their old friend Dr. Osier for a 
little while to say a few words to them, which he 
hoped every student present would carry away with 
him and carry out in his life. 

At the conclusion of Sir William Dawson’s speech, 
His Excellency expressed his hearty thanks for the 
souvenir in the form of the gold key which had been 
presented to him. It was valuable, not only symbol- 
ically, but intrinsically, being evidently made of good 
solid gold, and the inscription would record for the 
benefit of those who would come after him, what he 
was not likely himself to forget, namely, that he had 
had the privilege of taking part in the interesting 
pioceedings of the day. He then formally declared 
the building open. 

Thiee cheers were then given for the Queen and 
three foi the University, led by the Governor-Gen- 
eral, and, upon the call of Mr. John Crawford, three 
were given for the Governor-General and Lady Aber- 
deen, which closed the ceremony. 

On the conclusion of the addresses, the second part 
of the programme, and that of more interest to the 
public in general, was entered upon. The large num- 
bers of the guests who were unable to gain admission 
to the lecture theatre, where the speeches were deliv- 
ered, mingled with the throng that came from it, 
and rapidly spread themselves over the building, all 
the laboratories being thoroughly investigated, the 
very large number of ladies present seemingly taking 
the keenest interest in all. 



Thus day and night is his poor heart oppressed 
By warring factions’ strife within his breast. 

His face grows pallid, and with eyes downcast, 

He treads the busy streets, unconscious all 
Of business or of pleasure. All his life 
Is ebbing fast away, crushed by the dread 
And fatal demon, Indecision, who, 

When he would incline to choose Belinda, 

Tortures his victim with entrancing view 
Of all Miranda’s beauties. So he lives, 

And languishes, and droops, and almost dies. 

But he is not to die ; for, as one day. 

He towards Belinda’s window doth approach, 

And sees her graceful form, and thinks on all 
Her various charms, seized with a great desire 
He enters. Ere his hated Demon can 
Oppose his purpose, he hath all his love 
For her unfolded, and thereto his face, 

Haggard and pale, doth seem to set the seal 
Of truthfulness. Belinda’s heart is touched 
With pity, not with love ; and though he plead, 

It can him naught avail. She is resolved. 

As from her presence out into the world 
He passes once again, he feels the bands 
Of Indecision loosen, and fall off ; 

And thus his life is rescued from Despair. 

IOLANTHE. 

IN MEMORIAM MDCCCXCIV. 

“ Non omnii moriar !” I shall not wholly die !— is 
a natural and universal expression of a general hope. 
Few indeed are there who have no secret wish to 
have a “ forget-me-not ” of some kind growing on 
their grave. 

Are we wrong in thinking that, though “ the dull, 
cold ear of death may not hear the accents that 
are spoken, few of the living will grudge the laying 
of a souvenir of the departed upon the bier of those 

who, could they speak, would surely now tell us 
that 



INDECISION. 

It hath been said — we know not how much truth 
Lies in the tale, — that ’twixt twoTstacks of hay, 
Of equal size, equally fresh and sweet, 

An ass could ne’er decide, and therefore starved 
In sight of plenty. This may be myth, 

Altho’ it doth with asses’ nature fit ; 

But truth is ever strange : and thus we find 
A youth enamoured is of maidens twain, 

Whose equal beauties so distract his heart 
As he is like to die ; and all his acts 
Like those of one distraught, distress his friends. 
Belinda’s golden tresses, eyes of blue, 

Ravish his soul, her laughter thrills, him though ; 
And as the gentle zephyr through her hair 
Plays softly, and the golden sunbeam throws 
His brightness round about her, he doth feel 
She is the queen of fairy : all delights 
Must dwell with her. Without her life is death. 
Alas ! inconstant man, he doth but see 
Miranda’s raven locks, her eyes so black, 

And deep, and liquid, as that pool in which 
Narcissus saw his lovely form ; and he 
In them alone his happiness doth see. 

The moonbeam veils her face with silvery light. 
In soul- compelling tones her voice doth fall 
Upon his ear. No music half so rare. 



Who breathed on man a portion of His fire, 

Bade his free soul, by earth nor time confined, 

To Heaven — to immortality aspire.” 

How the beat of the heart slackens when on< 
thinks of the man of yesterday being the dead of to- 
day ! one to whom to-morrows of aspirations, plans 
endeavours, labours, endurances come no more • tc 
whom the hopes, the aims, the loves, the charities o 
yesterday are as “ if they were not” ; and for whoir 
the tear is shed, the sigh is heaved, the heart is 

pierced, and “ the mourners go about the streets ” 
uselessly and vain. 

It is from no personal love for pronouncing 

° r r alS °l >S J“ Hcbres tha ' we undertake to wreathe an 
In Memonam of admiration for the dead and lost ol 
t te past year. It is melancholy to watch the falling 
of the fruit, ripe or unripe, from the tree of life 
■ t is sad to reckon up a book in which each item is 
loss- for the entries per contra of gain cannot be 
noun till years have flown— and the hand of the 

leckoner himself may be passive. In a few briel 
words 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



137 



c ‘ Let us recall the memory of the dead,— 

Lost to us their being, living to ns 
In their works, yet neither iti their 
Works oQbeing wholly lost.” 

A mere sense of brotherhood should incline us to 
note and remember those who have gone from the 
world of work and earthly visibility into that 
mystery of change which men call death. But there 
will be small utility in such a review unless we learn 
from the story of their efforts, and even their fail- 
ings, the useful lesson of individual responsibility. 
YV hile we mark what manner of spirit they were of, 
let us notice also the works they effected in their day 
of life, and become convinced, by what we know and 
have seen of them, that 

“ We are but farmers of ourselves, and may 

If we can stock ourselves, and thrive, uplay 

Much, much good treasure ’gainst the great rent-day.” 

In the hope that this In Menioriain may speak 
justly and truly of the dead, we proceed to mention in 
order, as far as we can, the chief writers, and think- 
ers, and workers who have left their places vacant 
during the year 1894. 

It is fitting to commence with a record of Can- 
ada’s losses, and here give prominence to the name 
of Sir John Thompson, whose death may be regarded 
as a national calamity. 

Sir John Sparrow David Thompson, P.C., 
K.C.M.G., M.P., Q.C., Premier of Canada, died 
suddenly at Windsor Castle, on December 12th, only 
a few minutes after having been sworn in as a 
Privy Councillor. The circumstances connected with 
his death, and the honours and respect so universally 
accorded to his remains, have been so recently 
before us, as to render it unnecessary to repeat them 
here. No more fitting tribute to the memory of the 
demised statesman can be furnished than to quote 
the moving, eloquent words of His Excellency the 
Governor General, Earl Aberdeen : — 

“\ou have all heard of the memorable day when that great 
British warship, the ‘ Blenheim,’ steamed into Halifax harbour, 
bearing the mortal remains of the noble-hearted Canadian 
statesman who, after faithfully serving his country, his sover- 
eign and his Creator here, had been suddenly called to a higher 
and more glorious service above. And why do we bring in this 
picture and these thoughts at the conclusion of this afternoon’s 
entertainment ? I will tell you. We have been trying to pre- 
sent before you to-day various scenes reminding us of notable 
events in Canadian history, and of people of whom Canada may 
well be proud. 

“And brilliant indeed is the Canadian roll of fame. Its heroes 
and heroines encountered and overcame dangers and difficul- 
ties — perils from the forces of nature and from uncivilized 
peoples. They laboured, and we have entered into the fruit of 
their labours. But they have also left us a message and a legacy 
of sacred responsibility. And the latest addition to the illus- 
trious roll is the name of him of whom IJiave spoken. 

“ Some of you may think : Ah ! but he had such great gifts 
and such great opportunities ! Great, indeed, were his gifts, 
but these alone would never have enabled him to do what he 
did and to be what he was. It was the exercise of what are 



called the humbler, the more ordinary qualities of conscientious 
work, self-control, perseverance, faithful integrity; it was the 
exercise of these that gave him not merely success but ennobling 
influence. And again, it may be said, that it was because of 
the tragic, the impressive circumstances of his end that so deep 
and wide a movement of feeling was awakened. Nay, those 
surroundings were rather, as it were, the setting, the frame that 
brought out the features. The true sources of that response of 
sympathy and esteem was the intuitive recognition by the 
whole people, of the worth, the^character of the man. 

“And may we not pray that Canada’s loss, which during these 
weeks we have mourned, may yet be Canada’s gain, in that the 
message of that life may stimulate not a few to consecrate them- 
selves to the service of their country in the highest sense ? May 
there not,— must there not be amongst you, my young friends, 
some who will take up the sacred torch, and whether as politi- 
cians, municipal or national, or as lawyers, or as soldiers, or as 
men of commerce, resolve that you will do your part; and who 
knows how distinguished you may become in adding to the 
greatness and the glory of Canada? 

“ Lives of great men all remind us 
We can make our|lives sublime." 

11 But the great men were great, not merely because of brilliant 
endowments, but because of patient application and work. It 
means trouble, it means self-denial, but 4 he that shall endure 
to the end 5 is the one who has the Divine promise of blessing 
and true success.” 

Among other deaths worthy of being placed on 
record are : — 

Sir M. B. Begbie, Chief Justice of British Colum- 
bia, died June I ith. 

Sir Narcisse Fortunat Belleau, a well known 
politician, who will be especially remembered, 
through his having been Lieutenant-Governor of 
Quebec from 1867 to 18 7 1 , died September 13th. 

Hon. Amos E. Botsford, Member of the Senate, 
died March 19th, aged 96. 

Professor Charles Carpmael, Director of the Can- 
adian Meteorological Service, died at Toronto, 
October 22nd, aged 48. 

Rev. .Eneas Macdonell Dawson, LL.D., Vicar- 
General of the Diocese of Alexandria, died at 
Ottawa, December 29th, in his 85th year. 

Rev. Dr. Douglas, Principal of the Wesleyan Col- 
lege, Montreal, died February 10th. He will 
especially be remembered by his fearless, eloquent 
utterances on all public occasions ; it may truly be 
said of him, 

“ None knew him but to love him. 

None named him but to praise.” 

Joseph Duhamel, Q.C., a prominent lawyer, died 
October 23rd. 

Hon. Felix Gcoffrion, M.P. for Vercheres, P.O. 
formerly Dominion Minister for Public Works, died 
August 7th. 

Walter Hawkins, Coloured Bishop of the M. E. 
Church in Canada. 

Hon. John Hearn, Member of the Dominion House 
of Commons for Quebec West, died May 19th. 

Sir Francis Johnson, Chief Justice of the Superior 
Court, P.Q. An upright judge and a thorough gen- 
tleman. 



i38 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Joseph Jones, a well known citizen, who had been 
for nearly 50 years Coroner for the District of Mon- 
treal. 

Joseph Langton, Auditor- General of Canada for 23 
years, died at Toronto, March 20th. 

Duncan McIntyre, a successful merchant, and 
Canadian railway financier, died June 13th. He 
was President of the Canadian Pacific R.R., and 
connected with a number of public companies. 

Archibald McKellar, Sheriff of Wentworth, Ont., 
formerly Minister of Agriculture in the Provincial 
Government. 

Hon. Honore Mercier, ex-Premier of Quebec, died 
at Montreal, October 30th, after a lingering, pain- 
ful illness. 

Sir William Meredith, ex-Chief Justice of Quebec, 
died February 26th, aged 81. 

Norman L. Monroe, publisher, a native of Nova 
Scotia. 

Ven. William McMurray, D.D., Archdeacon of 
Niagara. 

Most Rev. Alexandre Antoine Tache, R. C. Arch- 
bishop of St. Boniface, Winnipeg, died June 22nd. 

Dr. Joseph Workman, late Superintendent of the 
Toronto Asylum for the Insane, died April 15th. 

Alonzo Wright, for many years Member of the old 
Assembly of United Canada, and Member of Parlia- 
ment under Confederation. 

Our neighbours’ in the United States had their losses 
to count during the year, and amongst them the name 
of Oliver Wendell Holmes may without question be 
placed first ; he was born August 29th, 1809, and died 
October 7th, 1894. His death called forth a world- 
wide series of graceful tributes to his memory. His 
active and conspicuous literary life extended through 
60 years. He had written good poetry in his school- 
boy days, and it was as early as 1830 that he roused the 
country with his spirited poem “ Old Ironsides,” and 
it was in 1890, just sixty years later, that his graceful 
volume “ Over the Teacups ” was written. Against 
every one of the long list of his contributions to gen- 
eral literature might be set down the title of some 
valuable work in his professional field of medical 
practice and science. 

Amongst other prominent Americans must be 
ranked : — 

John Quincy Adams, of Boston ; three generations 
of whose family were Ministers to England, and two 
were Presidents of the United States. 

Judge Macon B. Allen, the first coloured man ad- 
mitted co the Bar in the United States ; died Octo- 
ber 1 5th. 

James M. Bailey, the Danbury News man, died 
March 4th. 

General N. P. Banks, whose name was familiar 



during the Civil War, died at Waltham, Mass., on 
September 1st, aged 78. 

Frank P. W. Bellew, a New York caricaturist, died 
November 7th, known by his nom de plume “ Chip.” 

Austin Blair, a prominent Member of Congress. 

Peter Boyer, of Oswego, N.Y., engineer of the first 
steamboat that entered Chicago harbour in 1839* died 
November 10th. 

Rev. Lewis Burton, D.D., for 47 years a Protes- 
tant Episcopal clergyman of Cleveland, and the senior 
clergyman of the Diocese of Ohio, died October 9th. 

George William Childs, Proprietor of the Philadel- 
phia Ledger , a widely known philanthropist, died Feb- 
ruary 3rd. The memory of Mr. Childs will be per- 
petuated by the presentation of the fountain erected 
at Stratford-on-Avon, which bears on one side of its 
base, the inscription : “ The gift of an American citi- 
“zen, George W. Childs , of Philadelphia, to the town of 
“ Shakespeare in the Jubilee year of Queen Victoria .” 
Mr. Childs was a man of monuments in all forms. 
The most important one he erected over 30 years 
ago, by publishing Dr. Allibone’s “ Critical Diction- 
ary of English Literature and British and American 
Authors .” There was no profit in this vast compilation. 
There could be none. It was a heavy loss instead, 
and this loss was as clear before a page was printed, 
as after the publication of the last two volumes was 
turned over to Mr. Childs’ business successors. Mr. 
Childs embarked in it as a service to letters, and it 
was a most valuable contribution. He gave his sym- 
pathies wide range, and thus grew in knowledge and 
power, and in a constantly enlarged circle of friend- 
ship of those best worth knowing in all lands. 

Major George Chorpenning, the first man to carry 
the U. S. mails across the continent, died April 3rd. 

Ex-Governor Andrew G. Curtin, of Pennsylvania, 
died October 7th. 

George Ticknor Curtis, an eminent lawyer, and 
well known as a painstaking biographer, died March 
28th, aged 82. 

General Jubal A. Early, a distinguished Confeder- 
ate General, died in March. 

David Dudley Field, seniorleader of the New York 
Bar, died April 1 ith. 

Abraham Garrison, of Pittsburg, who saw the first 
trip of Fulton’s steamboat in 1807, died May 10th. 

Joseph Holt, a judge of Kentucky, a well known 
politician during the Civil War, died July 30th, aged 
87. 

John Jay, of New York, ex-Minister to Austria, 
and grandson of the first Chief Justice of the United 
States, died May 5th. 

Eugene Lawrence, of New York, historian and 
journalist, died August 17th. 

Douglas Luce, of Champaign County, Ohio, who 
was assistant commissary in Hull’s army during the 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



War of 1812, and knew the Indian Chief Tecumseh, 
died September 25th. 

James McCosh, D.D., ex-President of Princeton 
University, died November 1 6th, aged 84. In 1868 
he accepted the call to Princeton, and after a service of 
20 years, he laid down the burdens of the office in 
1888. 

Rt. Rev. Michael J. O’Farrell, Bishop of the R. C. 
Diocese of Trenton, N.J., died April 2nd. 

William Walter Phelps, diplomatist and jurist, for- 
merly Member of Congress, and Ambassador to Lon- 
don, where he was very popular, died June 16th. 

Dr. William Frederick Poole, of Chicago, died 
March 1st, aged 72. He deserved to be called the 
Nestor of librarians. He was the foremost authority 
in all matters pertaining to library science and the 
librarian’s profession. He graduated from Yale Col- 
lege at the age of 25, and upon leaving college he 
entered immediately upon his chosen life-work as a 
librarian. His first “ Index to Periodical Literature ” 
was published in 1848, and was a small volume. Its 
last edition, many times larger, with the supplements 
that have appeared, to keep it up to date, has un- 
locked for English readers everywhere a vast store- 
house of literature. 

Rev. Dr. William Greenough Thayer Shedd, for 
many years Professor in Union Theological Semin- 
ary, and a voluminous theological writer, died Novem- 
ber 17th. 

Herbert Tuttle, Professor of Modern History in 
Cornell University ; author of “A History of Prussia.” 

Francis H. Underwood, U.S. Consul at Leith, 
Scotland ; a well known author, died August 7th. 

The number of crowned heads and rulers is unus- 
ually large, including the following : — 

Alexander III, Czar of Russia, died at his summer 
palace at Livadia, in the Crimea, November 1st. 
His eldest son succeeded him as Czar Nicholas II. 

Archduke William of the Austrian Imperial Family, 
son of the famous Archduke Charles who was 
wounded at the battle of Koniggratz, died July 29th. 

Louis Charles Bonaparte, son of Piince Lucien, 
and Grand Nephew of Napoleon. 

M. Francois Sadi Carnot, President of the French 
Republic, assassinated at Lyons, on Sunday, June 
24th by Cesario Santo. 

H. S. H. Muley-el-Hassan, Sultan of Morocco, 

died June 7th. 

Le Comte de Paris; the Prince Louis Philippe 
d’Orleans, chief of the Royal House of France, died 
at Stowe House, Buckinghamshire, September 8th> 
aged 56. 

Tawhaio, King of the Maoris, died in August. 

Baron Nay, President of the House of Magnates, 

Hungary. 



139 



Music and the Drama number the following 
important names : — Madame Marietta Alboni, a 
distinguished contralto singer of the past generation, 
died June 22nd. 

George Barrett, a comedian of repute, died August 
26th. 

Dr. H. G. Von Bulow, a distinguished pianist and 
composer, died February 12th. 

Aynsley Cook, vocalist, long connected with Eng- 
lish opera, died February 16th. 

Gertrude del Grande, prima donna at the Opera, 
Milan, August 9th. 

William Charles Levey, musical writer and com- 
poser, August 24th. 

Signora G. Lucca of Milan, relative of the re- 
nowned prima donna Pauline, died in August. 

Laura S. Mapleson, opera singer, died January 
24th. 

Fraulein Jenny Meyer, of Berlin, a vocalist of con- 
siderable repute, August 9th. 

Professor Carl Muller, director of the Caceillen, 
Verein, Frankfort, and of the Museum Concerts, died 
August 1 rth. 

Madame Janet Patey, a popular contralto singer, 
died February 28th. 

Jacob Rosenheim, of Baden, a celebrated musician, 
died March 28th, aged 81. 

Anton Gregor Rubenstein, Russian pianist and 
composer, died November 20th. 

Ernest Camille Sivori, a distinguished violinist, 
died February 19th. Regarded as the only pupil of 
Paganini. 

Sir Robert Prescott Stewart, Professor of Music in 
Dublin University, a composer of cantatas, died 
March 25th. 

Rosina Vokes, a popular actress, died January 
29th. 

To be continued. 



AT A WELSH UNIVERSITY. 

The ancient grave-digger, when he got a holiday, 
used to betake himself to the next parish to see how 
they dug the graves there. Relying on the assump- 
tion that such a spirit as animated him exists among 
McGill students, the following remarks on life at a 
Welsh University have been offered to the FORT- 
NIGHTLY. 

Away on the western coast of Wales, on Cardigan 
Bay, there lies a small town, Aberystwyth by name, 
— “ queen of watering-places,” holiday-seekers from 
England and Wales call it. But the man or woman 
who has gone there for educational purposes thinks 
of Aberystwyth in a different light — as the chief 
home of the University College of Wales. There far 
from maddening crowd, far from din and toil oftrade> 



HO 



McGiLL FORTNIGHTLY. 



with the Welsh mountains closing in behind, and the 
boundless, ever-changeful sea stretching out in front, 
are yearly settled a company of some three or four 
hundred youths and maidens drinking from the founts 
of knowledge. 

From September to June the College session runs, 
the men-students to some extent filling up the many 
lodging-houses vacated by the summer holiday folk, 
and which otherwise would lie tenantless from sum- 
mer to summer. 

The town itself, consisting of some 7000 inhabitants, 
is built round the sweep into the land that the sea 
makes at this particular point. 

Aberystwyth is forced to grow backwards, for a 
sheer cliff rises on the northern side of the sweep, and 
over on the south the land quickly becomes uneven, 
indented, and eventually rises again to high cliffs. A 
row of houses line this sweep-in of the sea, just leav- 
ing room for a broad roadway and a paved prome- 
nade before the actual shingly shore is reached. The 
College a sole large building — guards the southern 
most point of the sweep. This building consists of the 
so-called “ Arts’ End” and the “ Science End,” while in 
the centre are rooms devoted to the use of the agricul- 
tural student. 

The University College of Wales, under which name 
are likewise included two other Welsh Colleges, one 
at Bangor and one at Cardiff, has hitherto existed 
not as an independent university, conferring its own 
degrees, but in affiliation with the London Univer- 
sity, preparing students on the work required for the 
London exams. These exams, students sat for in 
London, or in such other large towns as the author- 
ities might fix for centres. The examiner in a cer- 
tain subject would in all probability be quite other 
from the professor who had been lecturing in this 
subject at Aberystwyth. No necessity therefore arose 
for regarding the Aberystwyth professor in a “ pluck- 
ing ” capacity, but he could be looked upon as a friend 
against the foe. The College did, it is true, have its 
exams, on the work of the term, but these were more 
to allow the student to measure his attainments than 
the involving of life and death issues. 

As most people know, the London B.A. or B.Sc. is 
attained on the successful passing of three successive 
examinations : Matriculation, Intermediate and Final • 
and thus it comes about that the great body of the 
students at Aberystwyth, divided into those working 
for Matriculation, those for the Intermediate, and those 
for the Final, familiarly called “ Matrics.,” “ Inter.’’ 
and “ Finals.” Besides this majority there would be 
other students working for the higher degrees in Arts 

* This Welsh University is now about to enter on a new chapter of 
its history, since it has, within the last year, gained government sanc- 
tion to confer its own Degrees. 



and Science, and for scholarships at Oxford and Cam- 
bridge. 

As the object of this paper is rather to dwell on the 
social life developed at Aberystwyth College than on 
the actual study done there, let it be sufficient to say 
with regard to this latter, that anyone wishing for a 
testimony of the efficiency of the work done, has only 
to consult the London degree lists to find what a con- 
siderable space is occupied by the names of Abery- 
stwyth men and women students. The University 
College of Wales is primarily not behind the times. 
It has with wonderful clearness recognized that the 
times are changed, and that now every .human soul, 
whether in the form of a man or a woman, is to nave 
an equal chance of developing itself. It has, with 
the concentrated bravery of “ gallant little Wales,” 
advanced to meet the possible difficulties in the 
schemes for giving women at last some sort of 
thoroughness in their education. It has not con- 
descended to number with those half-hearted older 
colleges, who dilly-dally with the day, and with con- 
summate courage and prudence wait to see what the 
others will do. 

A few remarks quoted from an article written by 
an Aberystwyth professor will illustrate the position 
of the women students at this College. He writes : — 

I he success of Aberystwyth as a centre for the 
higher education of women is due to many causes, of 
which may be mentioned : — (1) The close union bet- 
ween Hall and College ; (2) the reasonable fees, ^45 
being about the average total payment for board, re- 
sidence, and tuition during the whole Session ; (3) 
the healthy environment ; and (4) the thorough way 
in which the “ mixed ” system is carried out. The 
w r omen students attend the same classes as the men, 
and take their full share in the social life of the Col- 
lege. The equality of women is set forth in the Col- 
lege Charter granted in 1889 : — ‘ 6. Female students 
shall be admissible to all the benefits and emoluments 
of the College, and women shall be eligible to sit on 
the Governing Body, on the Council, and on the 
Senate , and lastly, it is well worth noting that the 
University of Wales, though the youngest ofitskind, 
is the most liberal of all the resident British Univer- 
sities in its recognition of the educational claims of 
women : W omen s hall be eligible equally with 

men for admittance to any Degree which the Univer- 
sity is by this, Our Charter, authorized to confer. 
Every office hereby created in the University, and 
the membership of every authority hereby consti- 
tuted, shall be open to women equally with men.” 

A large Hall of Residence, under the management 
of a lady principal, gives accommodation to the women- 
students, who during the session are obliged to live in 
esidence. The men as previously mentioned — 
reside in various “ diggings ” about the town. As 



McGlLL FORTNIGHTLY. 



I4i 



Aberystwyth is but a small town, it happens that 
practically; all the students are non-residents, but 
‘‘come up ” for their College session. 

The students daily attemd the College for lectures, 
which are given at the same time to men and women. 
A great hall, familiarly known as “ the Quad,” and 
roofed, in great part, with glass, occupies a consider- 
able portion of the whole length and height of the 
Arts’ End. On to this, various lecture-rooms open, 
and from it a massive stone staircase leads up to a 
broad balcony running round the entire hall and on 
to which more lecture-rooms open. At the upper end 
of this balcony is the great doorway conducting into 
the fine library recently built. 

The Quad is a delightful place in which to stroll 
up and down during the few minutes intervening 
between the various lectures of the day. Each pro- 
fessor has his own special lecture-room with a pri- 
vate room adjoining, and students therefore seek the 
professor, and not vice vercsa . Changing rooms thus, 
and a few minutes’ stroll between lectures, is always 
considered a relief to the tedium of a long morning cf 
lectures. 

That College life is very strong is shown by the 
number of the societies — the committees of which are 
always made up impartially of men and women stu- 
dents, with at least one professor. At the beginning 
of each session a meeting of the whole College is 
held, the Principal presiding. This meeting first 
elects a general secretary for the whole College, and 
then the presidents, treasurers and officers of the com- 
mittees of the various societies — such societies being 
the Literary and Debating, the Celtic, the Scien- 
tific, the Dramatic, the Music, the Magazine, Athletic, 
etc. 

The most popular of all probably is the Literary 
and Debating, meeting every Friday evening, men 
and girls taking part in the discussion of literary, 
political and social questions. Once or twice a term 
this Society gives a Social, when at about 7 o’clock all 
the students and professors meet in the Quad, which 
has been gaily decorated for the occasion. Refresh- 
ments are first handed about, the men evidently well 
pleased to serve their College sisters, who have now 
changed their ordinary sombre, neat attire for gar- 
ments of lighter hue and more fanciful design. Then 
the company wander about at will, hearing the music 
or seeing the acting which the committee has ar- 
ranged and which will be going on in various lecture 
rooms. The library, for the nonce, will be turned into 
a tasteful drawing-room, with easy-chairs, tiny tables, 
pictures and knick knac ks contributed for the occa- 
sion from the Women’s Hall of Residence. 

Towards Christmas the Dramatic Society give a 
representation of the piece it will have been wo: king 
at during the term. This is always keenly appre- 



ciated, especially owing to the fact, that since the 
London exams, take place in the Summer and Fall 
(though Matriculation can be taken in January) the 
icy breath of the 19th century spectre has not yet 
begun to freeze the young blood. 

It is often a vexed question whether life at 
Aberystwyth College is more enjoyable during the 
winter terms or the summer term. In the summer 
the principal social organ is the tennis club. Eight 
or nine courts are possessed by the students, and there, 
during the long summer evenings, students of both 
sexes with a sprinkling of professors fly bat and 
ball. 

Towards 9 o’clock a rush takes place on the part of 
the girls, for they must be in Hall by a certain minute, 
or otherwise the penalty of “ gated ” is theirs— 
meaning that for so many following days they shall 
not be out after 7 o’clock. 

Boating is also a favourite occupation, the men hav- 
ing one club and the girls another. 

What Aberystwyth student can ever forget those 
glorious May and June evenings, when away out on 
the shining sun-set tinted sea he felt enfolded in a 
dream of beauty, the rugged gray cliff's with the in- 
terval of white-faced circling houses receding into the 
mere details of a picture, and nothing but gold and 
crimson and flashing crystal upon the horizon ! And 
then turning shoreward, another boat might have 
glided past, rowed by College girls, and in a twinkling 
in both boats oars had been uplited, and the salute 
accomplished, either boat had gone on its way. 

At the girls’ own Hall, a second and less public 
life is led. Here each girl has her own two rooms, 
or one room, as preferred. Meals are taken in a 
large dining hall, looking out on the sea. There are 
also drawing-rooms, sitting-rooms and a library shared 
by all. 

Here they give supper parties, “at homes” and teas 
to each other, and here also, under the lady prin- 
cipal’s direction, larger “ at homes ’’are given to pro- 
fessors, men students and towns people. 

Before closing this paper, it may be well to state, 
that in the midst ofall this freedom, there are yet some 
laws guiding the relationship of the men and women 
students towards each other. 

In the first place, during the session, men and 
women-students, outside the college precincts, are 
required by an unwritten law to have nothing to say 
to each other. This regulation can be easily carried 
out at Aberystwyth, since all the -women-students — 
with perhaps two exceptions in a hundred — area way 
from their own homes, and are obliged to live in Hall. 

Then, secondly, all introductions have to be go 
through the Lady Principal, or through the Professors 
O ccasionally, at Socials, with special permission, the 



McGill fortnightly. 



142 



committee appoints so-called stewards, through whose 
agency any introduction can be had. 

A former student says: “ I believe this complete 
equality of men and women, both in the social and in 
the educational line, met with the greatest success. 
There were just enough restrictions to give us the 
pleasure of a grumble if we so wished. Hard-and- 
fast narrow laws, making differences to be thought 
of where none exist, were not there. Both men and 
women alike shared in the hopes a nd triumphs of each 
other. When a success was won, it was a matter of 
congratulation not only to the College itself but to 
every member composing it. None of us were rich, 
and some of us were poor. We were all of the middle 
classes (English, Welsh, Scotch, Irish), and most of us 
were there as a preparation for making our own way 
in life. Flunkeyism was scarcely known.” 

Perhaps under no more favourable conditions could 
men and women be educated together than at 
Aberystwyth — home of the University of gallant 
Little Wales. 

K. B. W. 

CLASS REPORTS. 



SCIENCE JOTTINGS. 

The Students at large are much interested in the 
efforts of the Freshmen class to write essays. One 
man writes upon the highly original subject : “ Is 

it wrong for a man to do wrong ?” It is to be hoped 
he is wrong in his figures, for he proves that 90 per 
cent, of students in general are bold, bad men. This 
naturally met with some rather severe criticism from 
the other Years. 

- — 

Are the Faculty justified in forbidding the Students 
to use the machines ? Did the worthy donors un- 
derstand that their gifts were to be used by the 
workman in cutting their fingers or by the students 
in learning their construction and use ? 

The Fourth Year met in Prof. Nicholson’s class 
room on Thursday last, to consider the all-important 
question of a valedictorian. After much discussion on 
the subject of a valedictory, Mr. W. I 4 '. Carter was 
entrusted with the duty of bidding a graceful good- 
bye for those who graduate in ’95. 

Grievances too numerous to mention, so they are 
to be left out. 

Science men have just come to the conclusion that 
skates and sticks are unnecessary encumbrances, and 
that a puck can be substituted by a piece of wood in 
the glorious game of hockey. Under these modifica- 
tions the game may not be as graceful, but it is much 
more interesting, a new element of danger being 
introduced. Special arrangements have been made 



with the rink committee for the use of the rink and 
somewhat softer ice. 

The billiard sharks are becoming aggressive ! 
The electrical students now boast of a miniature table 
in the drawing room, where they play matches at 14 
inch back line (anchor shot barred), when the Pro- 
fessor is not looking. Should this be allowed? 

How did you do in mathematics? Biff-Biff. — 
Now, will you say that again ? 

Mr. Claud Holman, B.A. Sc. ’93, is, we are glad to 
hear, 'already making himself famous. He is at 
present employed in a large drawing office somewhere 
in the vicinity of Boston, and assures us he is at length 
able to put his paper straight on his board, to draw 
straight lines, and to put in tacks without serious 
injury to his fingers. 

Mr. A. S. Dawson, of the illustrious class of ’93, is 
with Moore & Co., water works people of Boston. 

We are once in a while cheered by a visit from 
Mr.* Larmonth, ’93, who is at present picking up 
crumbs of knowledge in the Grand Trunk, Point St. 
Charles. 

The Fourth Year Mechanicals were rudely inter- 
rupted in a game of tag in the drawing room the 
other day. What ! Is even the sanctity of our draw- 
ing room to be intruded upon ? 

Prof . — “ Has anyone more questions to ask ? ” 

Wr — t. — “ Yes, sir, I have.” 

Prof. — “ That’s ‘ Wright’,” 

Groans from class, after which professor apol- 
ogizes. 

We regret to say that Mr. Morley Ogilvie, Sc. 
’96, has been compelled to leave us, and by so doing 
loses his year, on account of the serious illness of his 
brother in Colorado. On the 15th Mr. Ogilvie 
started for Denver, Col., where on his arrival we 
trust all presented a brighter aspect than when he 
left us. This is the sixth man from ’96 who has been 
compelled to leave his Year on account of sick- 
ness. 

Prof, to class : — “ When a beam is broken, fracture 
generally takes place between the two ends.” 

The following account of the death of the illustri- 
ous Wolfe has been discovered in the archives of the 
“ Monument National,” preserved on the cylinder 
of a phonograph ; unfortunately the wax is injured 
in some places, so that the connection is not always 
clear : — 

“ Wolfe, accompanied by his officers, priests and 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



143 



savage chiefs, was slowly wending his way down the 
1 Main,’ meanwhile repeating some elegy in which 
could be heard the words ‘ differentiation, ’ ‘ fric- 
tion,’ ‘ impact.’ Suddenly rousing himself, and 
seeking to dispel the 1 W ebbs ’ which surrounded 
his brain, he cried : ‘ Gentlemen, I would rather have 
been the author of a book on Applied Mechanics 

than take Quebec ’ (here the wax was ruined) 

Wolfe was slowly dying from the effects of ice cream 
and confectionery, and realizing that his end was 
approaching called his favourite officer. The officer 
approached, and was commissioned to bring the 
priest of tribe ’95. ‘ Le pere ’ drew near, repeat- 

ing the new and revised version of ‘ pax vobiscum 
which is * pack your cranium,’ and heard the fol- 
lowing words (here the wax was again spoiled) ‘ map- 
ping ’> 

‘ sleigh drive ’, ‘ banjo concert’.” 



ARTS ’9 7 AT THE CLUB-HOUSE. 

The Sophomores, who are all strong believers in 
the old adage, “ All work and no play makes Jack 
a dull boy,” thinking that work had been monopoliz- 
ing all the days and a good many of the nights, de- 
cided to devote Friday night, Jan. 18th, to recrea- 
tion. 

At six o’clock, therefore, the class, almost to a 
man, hied to the rendez-vous , the corner of Sher- 
brooke St. and Cote des Neiges hill, from whence 
they tramped to the Club-house. Now the fun com- 
menced ; first came a bounteous repast, to which all 
did ample justice, amidst a continuous flow of jokes 
and merriment, which reached a climax, when the 
vice-president told the latest, story in pure classical 
Latin. 

After all had partaken of the good things, toasts 
became the order of the day,. These were drunk in 
a strictly temperance drink, ginger-ale, provided by 
Mr. T. G. Browne. First came our “Alma Mater,’’ 
proposed by our genial President, Mr. A. R. MacMas- 
ter, and replied to in a highly eulogistic manner by the 
vice-president Mr. H. Mackay. Mr. L. Macfarlane 
in a few fitting words, proposed “ sister years,” to which 
Mr. M. H. Marler replied in his own peculiar style. 
“ The Ladies” was proposed by Mr. E. M. Campbell 
and replied to by Mr. J. G. SaXe, in a speech fair’.y 
flowing over with compliments to the “ fair sex.” 

Following this came a good programme of instru. 
mental music, songs, etc. 

At ten o’clock the march homeward was begun ; 
and Cote des Neiges Hill and Sherbrooke Street was 
arrived at about 1 1 o’clock. 

One and all declared that the whole affair was a 

great success. 

D 



Found in the note-book of a Donalda, Honour 
Classics student : 

li Boyibus Kissibus 
Sweete Gerlorum, 

Gerlibus Likibus 
Wante Sumorum. ,; 

“You will not soon forget ’95,” said our English 
Professor, as he wished us a Happy New Year 
May the events of April not cause our memories of 

it to be unpleasant. We are now on the home 

« 

stretch, with twenty-six men on the course. When 
we remember that more than half our original num- 
ber have fallen out by the way, we reflect upon the 
ruthlessness of the laws of selection. 

At two meetings of the four years, the question 
Dinner vs. Conversazione was ably and eloquently 
argued, and decision has been given in favour of a 
Conversazione. 

The following committees have been elected, to 
make necessary preparations for that event: — 

Committee of Consultation : Profs. Moyse, Colby 

and Lafleur. 

Students' Committee : 

Fourth Year, — Messrs Craig, Armstrong, Tooke 
and Hanson. 

Third Year, — Messrs Smiley, Campbell and Pat- 
terson. 

Second Year, — Messrs Trenholme, Kerr and E. 
Campbell. 

First Year, — Messrs Heine, Todd and R. C. Pat- 
terson. 

Mr. W. G. Turner, ’96, has been chosen Arts rep- 
resentative on the Skating Rink committee. 

While President F. was making his way to lec- 
tures, wearing his gown but with it something which 
was not the regulation cap, he was dismayed to find 
himself face to face with the Dean. Off came that 
cap in a moment, while visions of fines darted across 
his mind. He escaped, though. The supposed sal- 
ute was graciously returned, and the Dean passed 
on all unconscious of the breach of rules. 

S. — (looking at a large chart on the wall) “ Is that 
picture life size ?” 

Prof. — “ No. I’ll show you a specimen, presently, 
under the microscope. ” 

Prof. — “ Scan that line, but take care of your feet 
as you do it.” 

Student. — (en bas) “ Can’t do two things at once, 
can I ?” 

Bareful preparation has been made for the annual 
visit to the Athletic C lub House. It will be in the 
shape of a drive this time, instead of the customary 
“tramp.” We hope that every Arts man will turn 



144 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



out to it ; and we would be glad to see many from 
the other Faculties. This drive is really the only 
“ Faculty event we have, and for that reason it 
should be heartily supported. 



W ithin the French lecture-room the North Ameri- 
can Act is disregarded ; French law and the French 
tongue are supreme. We have been told, there is 
space outside the door for anyone who rebels 
against this. If the same law were enforced with 
regard to the dead languages, would we not become 
“ resurrectionists ” ? 

Scene. A Grecian class-room. 

(Enter T. late and without his gown) 

Prof. “ Now, this won’t do at all. Where’s your 
gown ?” 

T. — “ Its lost, sir ! ” 

P r °f* — “Well, I’ll excuse you, but we can’t regard 
you as present.” 

(Thus did we “entertain an angel unawares.”) 



LEGAL BRIEFS. 

Once more united, dear boys, in the old historic 
class room, and settled to another three months 
grind. No more holidays till spring. The midwin- 
ter break was never as anxiously looked forward to, 
or as welcome when it came, as it was this year ; and 
the general appearance of the students seems to indi- 
cate that the vacation was put to the purpose for 
which it was meant. 

A few weeks of freedom works marvels— in the 
complexion : gives brightness to the eye, colour to 
the cheek, and length and glossiness to the whiskers. 
Our three full sets have grown apace. 

Naturally it has been interesting to compare notes 
on the results of the recent exams. Considering the 
interesting scenes through which we have passed, the 
casualties have been unimportant and few. The 
Third Year are to be congratulated on the lively fight 
all around, and the high standing. The figures are 
indicative of a pretty race for the medal. In the 
Second Year, the two best men are where they ought 
to be— at the top, while we unfortunates are skim- 
ming along in the distance, trying to keep them in 
sight by taking in all the knolls. We are sound 
enough in limb, but a little weak in the wind. The 
First Year are bricks- especially the little man who 
has emerged with an 86 record. 

We are glad to see our popular President once 
more among us— looking happy. Likewise our Vice. 
The Legal Editor— to whom ye scribe must be humbly 
deferent — has also connected. In a word, the offi- 
cials have returned in good health, and we are all 



reassembled as of old under the placid eye of our 
sage and somniferous owl. But one thing is wanting 
to perfect our reunion — to make our happiness com- 
plete, the redoubtable S has not yet appear- 

ed. We regret this. Considering the way he walk- 
ed over the First Year, cigars were imperatively called 
for. Mr. S. — “ Cigars for all.” Just think of it! 

Charlie’s nightmare haunts him still! 

Six lectures a week in Criminal Law' ! That’s noth- 
ing 5 — we can keep up. All the long, quiet night is at 
our disposal. 

The Professor of Real Estate, recently, in a few 
encouraging remarks to the students anent the recent- 
ly defunct bill, said that, notwithstanding, we would 
all undoubtedly pass our Bar exams without difficulty. 
But then we are not all Englishmen who can carry 
the whole body of the law with us, wherever we go, as 
under our hats. 

ALAS! 

I 

Our little bill 
Lies cold and still 
In death. Ah well, so let it be, 

At rest at last from all its agony, 

From the mangling and lashing of it. 

The hewing and slashing of it, 

In Committee. 

II 

And yet, aud jet, we would not have it so, 

5 Tis hard to think our bill has had to go, 

After all our eloquence 
Against the bill aud in defence. 

After Joe’s fiery oration, 

After C — r — 1 and P — s — n, 

The marshalling of the hosts the drawing on 
After the close and sharp division ; 

After all this it was a shame, 

For which the Bar’s alone to blame. 

To kill 

Our bill. 

Ill 

But stand up, boys — be firm ; 

Wince not, students, neither squirm, 

Stand to your guns like soldiers true, 

Stand till your Bar exam, is through. 

Yes, you bet we’ll stand, not wilt, 

Even though our bill be killt. 

The gentleman who questioned the Dean the 
other night as to what would happen if he practised 
homicide on a mermaid, has evidently returned in a 
very vindictive spirit from his holidays. He must 
have surpi ised some other fellow but why get mad ? 
Now, if he had asked what the consequence of his 
seizing and scalping one of the Bar examiners would 
be, we would have been right with him — especially 
the Third Year. And the Dean might have been 
moie cautious than to reserve his opinion till he saw 

the object before him, as he did in the case of the 
mermaid. 



McGill fortnightly. 



ms 



At a recent meeting, the Students unanimously 
acquiesced in the proposal to co-operate with the 
sister Faculties in the matter of the proposed Univer- 
sity Memorial to the late Mr. Peter Redpath. 

At the same meeting, the date of our annual din- 
ner was fixed and a committee appointed. The Law 
dinner is considered to be the event of the year with 
us. There is no reason why it should not be a bril- 
liant success this winter. The committee is a suffi- 
cient guarantee as to that ; yet the students should 
not throw the responsibility wholly upon their shoul- 
ders. Let us all turn out. Committee : Messrs. 
Donahue, Mitchell and Bond. Date — Tuesday, 29th 
January. 

MEDICAL CLASS REPORTS. ' 

At the last dinner of the Medical Faculty, some 
statements of an offensive character to Professor 
Cameron were made by individual student speakers, 
and since then the whole class of ’95 has been 
made to suffer serious consequences. Lately, how- 
ever, the class as a body have duly considered the 
matter, and last week sent a deputation to wait upon 
Doctor Cameron, to explain away disagreeableness, 
and if necessary to apologize for the unpremeditated 
and uncalled for remarks. The result of the conference 
is a most satisfactory reconciliation of all concerned. 

The class of ’95 had a meeting a few days ago, 
to make arrangements for the annual graduating 
class picture, and appointed a committee to look 
after preliminaries. It may be said that it is rather 
soon yet ; but when one considers that the shock, 
worry and anxiety of approaching finals early set 
their various screws on the facial expressions, it 
will be readily admitted that to have their own 
mothers recognize their sons it must be done soon. 
This year’s graduating picture will probably eclipse 
all previous ones, because the individuals are hand- 
some in countenance and still present untroubled 
“ facies .” 

George McNally, ’95, emphatically declares that 
in all his travels he never met with such an enter- 
taining gioup of students as those of Queen’s Medical 
College, Kingston. He went there as representative 
of McGill Medical College, and is pleased with his 
trip. 

In Hornaday’s recent work on Taxidermy appears 
the following notice of our popular osteologist, M. 
Bailly : — 

“ No one who has ever visited one of the exhibi- 
“ tions of the Society of American Taxidermists is 
“ likely to forget the exceedingly droll and mirth - 
“ producing groups of stuffed frogs caricaturing poor 
“ humanity produced by M. Bailly of Montreal, 
“ Canada. 



“ As a humorist and satirist our old friend Bailly 
“ has few equals, and added to his fine mechanical 
“ skill his love of the ridiculous took permanent form 
“ ingroups of frogs. 

“ The frog seems to have been created for the 
“ especial purpose of enabling Monsieur Bailly to 
“ caricature mankind. The results must be seen to 
“ be appreciated. We have had groups of frogs duel- 
“ ing, making love, getting drunk, smoking, dancing, 
“ fishing, gaming, electioneering and what not. For 
“ frogs there is only one taxidermist, for I have 
*• never seen anyone else, either French or American, 
“ who could even rival our old friend.” 



THE DOCTOR’S LIFE. 

“ Men,” as Shelley has said, “ are cradled into 
poetry by wrong.” This seems to have been the case 
with Dr. J. Johnson, of Bolton, who, at the annual 
dinner of the local medical society, burst forth in a 
“ Song of the General Practitioner,” which draws a 
vivid picture of the grievances of the body to which 
he belongs. The following will serve as a sample of 
the doctor’s complaints of the treatment accorded by 
the public to medical men : 

He must not walk his rounds for fear his patients think him 
poor, 

And dearly do they love to see a carriage at thiir door ; 

And if his horse is fat — “ He must have little work to do.” 

And if it’s lean the reason it : “ He starves the poor old 
screw.” 

Should he call upon his patients every day when they are ill, 
His motive painly is “ to make a great big doctor’s bill ” ; 

If he visits them less frequently — thus less’ning their expense — 
The chances are he’ll be accused of wilful negligence. 

About his own afflictions he must never say a word, — 

The notion of a doctor being ill is so absurd ; 

And when, perhaps from overwork, he’s laid upon the shelf. 

His sympathizing patients say : “ Physician, heal thyself.” 

Ex. 

COMPARATIVE MEDICINE CLASS 
NOTES. 

The annual meeting for the conferring of degeees 
upon and the presentation of a purse to Mr. John 
Milloy was held Dec. 30th, according to the old 
established custom. The committee had prepared 
an excellent programme, and for three hours joy was 
unconfined. 

Mr. Milloy was presented with two elaborate and 
immense diplomas, which were given in three lengths 
of stove-pipe in lieu of the ordinary small tube. A 
humourous address was made by one of the students, 
who in cap and gown with due ceremony conferred 
the degree, and presented the diplomas together with 
Christmas gifts to the force at 6 Union Ave. Music, 
songs, recitations, dancing, readings and addresses 
followed in quick succession. 

Altogether the entertainment was a decided suc- 
cess, and far in advance of any preceding affair of the 



146 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



kind. The last college day of 1894 will be long re- 
membered by each undergraduate of this Faculty. 
We only regret that lack of space prevents our copy- 
ing the elaborate programme. 

The students of the Faculty remaining in Mon- 
treal during the holidays were invited to Christmas 
dinner by Dr. Charles McEachran. Seventeen in all 
enjoyed the hospitality of the genial professor of 
Cattle Pathology. The heart-warming, friendship- 
cementing influences of a well served, well eaten and 
well enjoyed dinner as usual made the after dinner 
orators and singers eloquent and melodious. This 
makes the eighth annual dinner given by Dr. Charles 
McEachran to the students. 



ATHLETICS. 



To the Editor of the McGill Fortnightly : 

The Annual Meeting of the McGill University 
Athletic Association will be held on the 4th of Febru- 
ary, in the Molson’s Hall, at 8 o’clock p.m. v , 

The conditions under which the Executive Com- and history of the winner of the trophy, together with 
mittee have accepted the two trophies, viz., the Gra- | the medical report upon him, his athletic performances 



tug of-war, sack race and relay race not to be counted 
as events or taken into consideration in connection 
with the trophy. In the event of a tie, the tie-man 
having the greatest number of first places to be the 
winner of the trophy; should there still be a tie, the 
tie-man having the greatest number of second places 
to be the winner of the trophy ; and should there still 
be a tie, the trophy shall be awarded to the youngest 
tie-man. 

2. That the Atheltic Association do, from time to 
time, make such rules and take such steps as may be 
in its opinion necessary for the safe keeping and pre- 
servation of the trophy. 

3. That the trophy be placed in a conspicuous place 
in the Faculty in which the undergraduate holding it 
is attached, or in such other place in any of the Uni- 
versity buildings (The library is suggested) as the 
Association may from time to time determine. 

4. That a special book be kept by the Association, 
to be called the "Governors’ Trophy Register,” in 
which shall be entered fully, and in detail, the name 



duate Society Trophy given by the Graduate Society 
of this city, and the Trophy given by the Governors 
of the University, will be read. It will be an advan- 
tage if the undergraduates have a chance to hear the 
conditions and become acquainted with them. 

“ The Graduates’ Society Trophy” is subject to the 
following conditions and to the acceptance of the Un- 
dergraduates : — 

1. That this trophy be given for competition at the 
Annual McGill Sports on all the regular field events 
of the day, but not including a tug-of-war contest, 
five points being given for each first place, three points 
for each second place, and one point for each third 
place. 

2. That the Faculty whose students make the 
highest aggregate score hold the trophy for the ensu- 
ing year, and that the McGill University Athletic 
Association affix a shield to the trophy each year, 



and engrave thereon the name of the winning Fa- possible. 



both before, during and subsequent to his college 
career. The winner s photograph to be also kept in 
the legister. Such register to be submitted to the 
Governor, the chairman of the Grounds Committee, 
at least once a year, for his inspection. 

5. No undergraduate shail hold the trophy more 
than twice during his attendance at the University. 

6. That the Association do affix a shield to the 
ti oph} each year, on which shall be engraved the 
name of the winner thereof, the Faculty and class to 

which he belongs, and such other record as they may 
think best. 

The Governors also desire to present annually to 
the holder of the trophy, a slight souvenir of the 
occasion, and have therefore to request that a notice 
of the date fixed for the sports be given to them as a 
body, and also to the Governor, the chairman of the 
Grounds Committee, each year, at as early a date as 



culty. 

3. That the McGill University Athletic Associa- 
tion be required to keep a permanent register of the 
events, score, time, etc., and to keep this register among 
its archives at McGill College. 

The “ Governors’ Trophy” is to be competed for 
under the following conditions : — 

1. To be won and held for the ensuingyear bv the 
undergraduate student (partial students to be ex- 
cluded from the competition) taking the highest aggre- 
gate of points in the different events five points 
being given for each first place, three points for each 
second place, and one point for each third place. The 



The Referee’s Report, which contains many very 
useful suggestions, will be read. 

The following rules will be discussed:— 

1. For the Competition in the race, known as the 
Relay Race. 

2. For the time when the entries must be made. 

As some misunderstanding occurred last year upon 

this point, I would insert the definition of an amateur 
athlete : 

Article IV— Constitution and By-Laws of the 
Amateur Athletic Association of Canada reads •— 

“ An amateur is one who has never competed 'for a 
money prize or staked bet, or with or against a pro- 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



147 



SS 



fessional for any prize, or who has never taught, pur- 
sued or assisted in the practice of athletic exercise as 
a means of obtaining a livelihood ; or who has never 
entertd any competition under a name other than his 
own.” 

I must call the attention of the Undergraduates to 
the following : — 

In order to obtain the use of the Molson’s Hall for 
the distribution of prizes after the Sports, three of 
the Executive Committee had to Guarantee to hold 
themselves responsible for any damage to seats, halls, 
etc. After the last distribution of prizes the Execu- 
tive Committee had to pay between $20 and $30 for 
damage to seats, etc. The Grounds Committee will 
not accept this account, and therefore the Undergra- 
duates will have to find some means of reimbursing 
the Executive Committee. 

There will be another matter brought up before 
this meeting, which will bring forth some discussion, 
viz., whether the Annual Field Day be held on the 
Montreal Amateur Athletic grounds or no. Last year 
it was found very hard to keep people off the track, 
and especially small boys, — one of the latter was 
the cause of the upset of one bicycle. 

If we have many entries for a race, it means the 
running of many heats. 

Election of officers for the year, etc. 

It is to be hoped that there will be a large attend- 
ance at the meeting. 

Yours, etc., 

Francis E. L. Johnston, 

Hon. Secretary McGill U.A.A. 

HOCKEY. 

This year we are to have good hockey played at 
McGill. A s everyone now knows McGill has 
dropped out of the Intermediate series, and joined a 
league composed of the principal Universities of 
Canada. The following resolutions were adopted, 
which constitute our constitution as it now stands, by 
a meeting of representatives from the several Uni- 
versities held in the Russell House, Ottawa, on 
December 22nd, 1894. 

1. The Association was called “ The College 

O 

Hockey Union.” 

2. The membership shall consist of the six clubs 
named above, on payment of the membership fee. 

3. These were divided into the Toronto Group, 
consisting of Trinity, Osgoode and Varsity ; and 
the Eastern Group, consisting of McGill, Queen’s 
and R. M. C. 

4. Each Group to arrange its own matches. The 
winners of the lespective Groups to be declared on 
or before the 2 1st of February. 1895. 

5. The final to be home and home games. The 
winner to be the club winning most games in both 
matches. 

6. The fee shall be $10.00, payable on or before 

the 20th January, 1895. 



7. The officers shall consist of : — president, vice- 
president, secretary, treasurer and committee of 
four. 

8. The following officers were elected : — 

President: Mr. Shirley Davidson. 

Vice-President : Mr. J. F. Patterson. 
Secretary-Treasurer : Mr. P. White, jun. 

Committee : Messrs. Hugh P'leming, J. McMurrick, 

R. G. Fitzgibbons and — Hayter. 

9. Those eligible to play in the Union matches 
shall be : — 

( a ) 7 ?£-Osgoode — Members of the Osgoode Legal 
and Literary Society, at the date of the annual elec- 
tion preceding the Hockey season for the current 
year, and bora fide residents of Toronto. 

( b ) ^-Universities — Undergraduates, bona fide 
in attendance at lectures in any Faculty of the Uni- 
versity, viz., men who are proceeding to a degree. 

10. The competing clubs shall agree on a referee. 
In the event of their not having come to an agree- 
ment 48 hours before the match, the president shall 
appoint the referee. 

1 1. The annual meeting shall be held in Ottawa 
on two weeks’ notice, at the call of the president. 
Emergency meetings may be called at the call of 
the president. 

12. At the close of the season, the winners shall 
notify the secretary -treasurer of the form they desire 
the souvenirs to take ; he shall advise the president, 
and act on instructions from him. 

13. In all games the home club’s rules shall 
govern. 

Shamrock vs. McGill. 

The first match of the hockey season as far as 
McGill is concerned was played on January 9th in 
the Beaver Rink, Pt. St. Charles, when the Knights 
of the Three Crows and Winged Foot crossed sticks. 

The match was a fine exhibition of fast and clean 
hockey from start to finish, and was proof that both 
clubs have first-class teams. The Shamrocks won 
by 1 1 goals to 5> though the score is a poor criterion 
of the struggle. During the first half the McGill 
team had rather the better of the game, but in the 
second half the superior condition and hard practices 
of the “ Point ” boys gave them a decided advantage. 
McGill has got an excellent team this year, and con- 
sidering that the team had never all played together 
before, they did remarkably well. 

Mr. M. Grant (Victoria) very kindly acted as 
referree, and performed his duties most ably. 

The following were the teams : 

Shamrocks. McGill. 

Fyfe goal H. Trenholme 

McDonald (Capt.) point G. Schwartz 

Stephens cover point F. Bickerdike 

R. Wall....*) f ...S. Davidson (Capt.) 

McQuesten l , , } ...A. Mussen 

rairbairn... ' j ...Cr. Drinkwater 

Brown J t^...E. McLea 

NOTES. 

The McGill Rink is now open, and the ice is in 
splendid condition. Already a large number of 
students have availed themselves of the splendid 



148 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



exercise which it affords them. It was found im- 
possible to have the Donalda and other students have 
the rink in common ; and thus the Grounds and 
Athletic Committee has given the Donaldas the use 
of the rink on Saturdays from ten a.m. to one p.m. 

The rink is under the management of a committee 
of students, with Prof. McLeod as chairman. This 
committee consists of a representative from each 
Faculty of the University and a representative from 
the Grounds Committee. 

The following hours have been arranged for hockey 
practices : 

General practices — Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, 
Thursday and Friday evenings from seven till eight 
o’clock, and Saturday morning from eight till ten 
o’clock. 

Team practices will be held on Tuesday and 
Friday afternoons from 5.15 till 6.15 o’clock. 

The rink is to be closed every evening at 10 o’clock, 
except Saturday, which is to be an “ open ” evening, 
and then the time is extended to 10.30 o’clock. 



SOCIETIES. 

DELTA SIGMA. 

The session for 1895 opened fdf the Delta Sigma 
Society on the afternoon of January 10th. Unfortu- 
nately but a small number of members assembled, 
to usher in their Society’s new year. In some com- 
munities this might create a suspicion of indifference, 
but not in a Donalda club, indifference sorts not with 
the glow and heat ever present there. The cold 
which is measured by Fahrenheit must have been 
answerable for the low state of vitality presented on 
that day. There was indeed a very bad storm raging 
outside, but those who braved it with Delta Sigma in 
view were very well rewarded. Miss Hammond’s 
paper “What’s in a name” was a direct evidence of 
scholarship, and the brightness and originality of 
Miss Pitcher’s “ Psychic Phenomena ” provoked uni- 
versal admiration. 

In strong contrast to the little gathering of the 
10th was the goodly company which on the 17th 
filled the theatre of the Peter Redpath Museum, 
the occasion being that of the joint meeting of Alum- 
nae and Delta Sigma societies. The programme for 
the afternoon being filled by the efforts of the Alum- 
nae, the Delta Sigma enjoyed all the privileges of 
guestship, though not lacking the freedom of those “ at 
home.” The parts in the Mock trial were so very 
well sustained throughout, that the humble Donalda 
feels her powers of description and criticism fail her, 
and will testify only to the high excellence of all. 

The afternoon was an exceedingly interesting one, 
and the Delta Sigma takes this opportunity of 
expressing its appreciation of the sympathetic and 
genial feeling shown by the Alumnae, and of express- 
ing its belief that such a meeting as that ofThursday 



must prove an inspiration to the Undergraduates 
Society as well as a means of riveting more closely 
those bonds of union which circle graduates and 
undergraduates together in the great university asso 
ciation. 

Y. W. C. A. 

The first Devotional Meeting of the new year 
was held January 1 ith. The subject, appropriate to 
the occasion, was “Beginnings,” and was treated in 
such a way by Miss Smith as to be of real practical 
benefit to all present. 

Christian courtesy formed the topic for the meet- 
ing of January 18th. 

Miss Kneene reminded those present of the Mas-, 
ter’s instruction for the development of true Chris- 
tian courtesy, embodied in the Golden Rule : “ Do 
unto others as ye would that they should do unto 
you.” 

The attention of all members of the Association is 
drawn to the fact that the hour of the Weekly Devo- 
tional Meetings has been changed for the remainder 
of the session from Friday to Wednesday at 4 
o’clock. 

In making this change the officers have considered 
the interests and convenience of all years as far as 
possible. In consequence, they hope to have a good 
attendance. 

SOCIETY FOR THE STUDY OF COMPARA- 
TIVE PSYCHOLOGY. 

The regular meeting of the Society was held on 
Wednesday evening, 16th inst., in the Lecture Room 
of the Faculty, Dr. Mills occupying the chair. 

Mr. J. C. Hargrave read a paper which evoked an 
interesting discussion. 

Mr. W. V. Jones followed with a paper on “ Mind 
in the Lower Animals.” The writer had evidently 
given the subject much thought, the outcome of 
which was a very deep although brief paper. The 
development of mind was considered from an evolu- 
tionary point of view, an attempt being made to pre- 
sent a plausible supposition of the origin of mind. 

The Society then adjourned to meet in the latter 
part of January. 



Y.M.C.A. 

The Sunday afternoon addresses to college men in 
the city Y.M.C.A. were resumed on the 13th, when 
Kev. T. I lasei Campbell, of Rutlam, India, gave a very 
interesting talk on foreign mission work. Last Sun- 
day we were favoured with a visit from Mr. W. H. 
Salmon of \ ale, who is visiting the college associa- 
tions of Canada under direction of the International 
Committee. He presented very forcibly the aim of 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



149 



college association work, and showed some encourag- 
ing results. 

Next Sunday Sir Wm. Dawson will lecture on the 
subject, “Sinai and the Desert"; and on Feb. 3rd 
Dr. Barbour will take for his subject, “An Introduc- 
tion to the Book of Numbers,” dealing with many 
questions touching the miracles and the morals of the 
book. 

This week the Bible class topic is “ Separation unto 
God,” Num. vi. ; and next week it will be, “The 
Spies’ Report and its Results,” Num. xiii-xiv. 

The building movement is progressing. It is very 
encouraging to have such hearty support from 
amongst the Governors of our College. We are also 
deeply grateful for the generous assistance which 
comes from the ranks of our Professors. And from 
.undergraduates the appeal for assistance has been 
fairly well responded to. So far as ascertained, the 
canvass was most successful in the Faculty of Medi- 
cine where about four hundred dollars were subscribed. 
We earnestly commend this project to the members 
of the University, and to those generous citizens and 
friends of the College who have nobly aided in 
making the name of McGill University renowned and 
honoured throughout the civilized world. Shall not 
the spiritual and the social needs of our students re- 
ceive consideration, as well as the intellectual ? 



EXCHANGES. 

We beg to remind our College contemporaries that ex- 
changes should be sent to the Editor in Chief, 
McGill Fortnightly, care McGill University 
Library. 

The exchange editor, though not idle before the last 
issue of the FORTNIGHTLY, was obliged to hold over 
his intended contribution, in order to make room 
for “ matter more attractive.” Perhaps this was well 
for him no less than for his readers, since it is to be 
feared that under the twofold influence of Christmas 
cheer, and the kindly feelings that it proverbially en- 
genders, his never very harsh disposition would have 
been rendered quite incapable of judicious criticism. 
He desires to state explicitly, however, that, though 
of necessity silent on the subject, he heartily acqui- 
esced in the greetings and good wishes which were at 
the proper time duly extended by his confreres to 
everybody who cared to accept them. But now the 
merest echo of the distant Christmas bells floats in 
the air; the lusty New Year has learned not alone 
to walk, but to take care of himself ; and the tempo- 
rary access of editorial geniality has, once again, 
dwindled to a point that is strictly normal, though as 
much can certainly not be said of the pile of material 
that awaits perusal upon the desk. This latter he 
accordingly proceeds to clear with what despatch he 
may. 



First to our hand comes the Canadian Magazine, 
which opens with an interesting article on “The Fourth 
Century of Canadian History,” and contains besides a 
short review of Recent Fiction in Britain, an account 
of the Royal Military College of Kingston, written 
with considerable detail, as well as much that is good 
in a lighter vein. , 

We have two numbers of the Varsity before us : 
that for December 12th, and the Christmas number. 
The latter contains a very interesting article on Louis- 
bourg, as well as one touching “ Some Advantages of 
Classical Culture.” Under the caption “ An Interest- 
ing Novel,” Prof. Horning contributes a charming re- 
view of The History of Emily Montague, which claims 
the distinction ofbeing (unless we mistake) the earliest 
Canadian work of fiction, which appeared in 1 7^9» 
and was the production of Mrs. Frances Moore 
Brooke. 

Both the Christmas number and the earlier issue 
are interspersed with poems and short artie'es, and are 
altogether enjoyable. 

To the many admirers of Longfellow, The Mani- 
toba College Journal is particularly attractive this 
month, containing, as it does, a short biographical 
sketch, as well as an article on his poetry, both 
penned by writers who appreciate his worth. 

We heartily endorse our friends of Queen's in their 
desire to have colleges noted for more than their 
mere “physical achievements;” and look forward 
with interest to the further development of intercol- 
legiate debates. 

The Dalhousie Gazette mourns over its “ wretchedly 
equipped gymnasium.” With this McGill can sym- 
pathize to the full. We also warm toward the edi- 
tors of The Mitre , when they urge each man to do 
his share in sustaining the paper. 

The Glasgow University Magazine of December 5th 
has bright editorials, a clever little story entitled 
“ Bobs,” and is otherwise, if we except the conclusion 
of the serial “ Sydenham’s Timepiece,” devoted chiefly 
to college notes. The Christmas number is particularly 
rich in light readable matter ; while if one may judge 
from what the editors say, their experience in regard to 
this number is enviable, to use no stronger term. We 
quote, “ for contributions offered, there can be nothing 
but praise : quantity and quality are alike far above 
the average, and the sole reason why some have had 
to be excluded is the extreme undesirability of print- 
ing one on top of the other.” Couple this with those 
editors (of whom we have read), who have been trying 
for years to invent a paper-splitting machine, in the 
feeble hope of being able to double their contributions 
at will. 

The University Cynic appears among our exchanges 
for the first time. It is largely devoted to purely 
local matters, and literature of a light character, with 



I 5° 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



several short poems. We hope to become better ac- 
quainted with our friend from across the border. 

From Maine comes the Bowdoin Orimt, with more 
local college news, and a considerable space devoted 
to athletics. 

With the December number of the Droghedean its 
fifteenth year is accomplished, and we offer our wishes 
for the long continuance of our contemporary. We 
have also received the January issue of the same 

paper. 

Lack of space forbids more than an acknowledg- 
ment of the following magazines : — Acta Victoriana, 
St. John's College Magazine , Our Dumb Animals , 
Sunbeam , McMaster University Monthly, and two 
numbers of The Presbyterian College Journal. 



COLLEGE ITEMS. 

It cost the management of the Yale foot-ball team 
of ’93 $260 a day while practice was going on. 

Eton College was founded in 1441 by Henri VI. 
Gladstone, Lord Salisbury and Balfour attended this 
college. 

For fifty years no smoker has graduated from 
Harvard College with the honours of his class. 



The football team of Johns Hopkins has been 
obliged to disband on account of lack of interest. 



The wealthiest university in the world is said to 
be that of Leland Stanford. When all its landed 
estates are cultivated, the endowment will amount to 
about $200,000,000. This year there are about 860 
students enrolled. 



READABLE PARAGRAPHS. 

An artist, employed recently in repairing the pro- 
perties of an old church in Belgium, w r as refused pay- 
ment in a.lump sum, and asked fora detailed account. 
This was what he sent in — francs being translated 



£. s.d. ; — 

1. Corrected the Ten Commandments £0 10 o 

2. Embellished Pontius Pilate, and put a ribbon 

in his bonnet, 081 

3. Put a new tail on the roosteFof Saint Peter, 

and mended his comb, 0120 

4. Replumed and gilded the left wing of Guardian 

Angel, OI 56 

5. Washed the Servant of the High Priest, and put 

carmine on his cheek, 010 

6. Renewed Heaven, adjusted two stars, and 

cleaned the moon, 1160 

7. Re animated the flames of Purgatory, and 

restored souls, 670 

8. Revived the flames of Hell, put a new tail on 

the Devil, memded his left hoof, and did 

several jobs for the damned, 1 16 6 

q . Rebordering the robe of Herod, and readjusting 

his Wig, 0173 

10. Put new spotted dashes on the Sou of Tobias, 

and dressed his' sack, 076 

11. Cleaned the ears of Balaam’s Ass, audshod him, 090 

12. Put earrings in the ears of Sarah, 092 

13. Put a new stone in David’s sling enlarged the 

head of Goliath, aud extended his legs .. 088 

14- Decorated Noah’s Ark, 0176 

15, Mended the shirt of the Prodigal Son, and 

cleaned his ears, o 15 3 



£17 10 5 

It reminds one of the accounts rendered to mana- 
gers of the old Miracle Plays. — Ex. 



A poetical shoe-maker in Barnstaple some years 

ago hung up the following remarkable effusion on a 

board over his shop : 

“ Blow, oh blow, ye heavenly breezes 
Underneath these leafy treeses ; 

Sing, oh sing, ye heavenly muses, 

While I mend my boots aud shoeses.” 



WINDSOR HALL . . . Thursday, Feb. 7th 

University of Toronto 




Qlee Club, 

Mandolin Club, 

Banjo and Guitar Club 



Assisted by MRS. CLARA BARNES HOLMES, Contralto, of Buffalo, N.Y. 



Concert under the distinguished patronage of Their EXCELLENCIES THE GOVERNOR GENERAL AND THE 
Countess of Aberdeen. Sir Donald and Lady Smith. Dr. and Mrs. Johnson. 



PLAN AT SHEPPARD’S MIL.IC STORE. 



