Vol. XI 



No. 3 




Printed by the Burland Lith. Co., Montreal. 








UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, Guerin & Greenshields, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, &c,, 

Chambers: Exchange Bank Building, 

1728 NOTRE DAME STREET, - - MONTREAL 

J. N. Greenshields. Edmond Guerin. R. A. E- Greenshields. 



Antiseptic Materials, Bandages, Etc., 

MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 

W. A. DYER & CO., 
Pharmaceutical & Dispensina: demists, 



ROBERTSON, FLEET & FALCONER, 

ADVOCATES, 

157 ST. JAMES STREET, 
MONTREAL. 

Atwater & Mackie, 

Advocates, Barristers, Commissioners, fc, 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 St. Janies St., Montreal. 

MACMASTERj HUTCHINSON, WEIR i MCLENNAN, 

ADVOCATES, 

BARRISTERS, SOLICITORS, &c., 
175 St. Janies St., Montreal, 

DONALD MACMASTER, Q.C. R. 8. WEIR, B.C.L. 

M. HUTCHINSON, B.C-L. F. S. MCLENNAN, B.C.L 



14 & 16 Phillips Square, Cor. St. Catherine St., 

MONTREAL. 

Bandages, Roller, Muslin, 

Bandages, Cotton, 

Bandages. Absorbent, 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze, 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, Assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent, 

Cotton Wool, Borated, 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated, 

Cotton wool, Sublimated. 

Drainage Tubes, Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent, 

L112 Gauze, Borated, 

Gauze, Carbolized, 

Gauze, Eucalyptol, 

Slain Gauze, Iodoform," 

Gauze, Naphthalin, 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill; Inhalers, Celluloid, 

Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached, 

Jute, Absorbent, 

Jute, Carbolized, 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated ; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels ; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes ; 
Sponges, Antiseptic; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain ; Sponges, 
Gamgee’s Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies’. 



CHURCH, CHAPLEAU, HALL & NICOLLS, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Commissioners, &c., 

147 St. James St., Montreal. 

Hon. L. RUGGLES CHURCH, Q.C. JOHN S. HALL, Jr. 

Hon. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. ARMINE D . NICOLLS. 

CRUICKSHANK & ELLIOT, 
Advocates, Barristers, etc., 

90 ST. JAMES STREET, CITY. 

McCIBBON & MAJOR, 

-A-d.-voca.tes, Barristers, etc., 

STANDARD BUILDING, 

157 St. James Street. 

A. PERIARD, 

Law Bookseller, Publisher, Importer & Legal Stationer, 

23 ST. ST., 



HEADQUARTERS 

—FOR — 

Sclool and College Text Bools ! 

DRYSDALE’S 

232 ST. CT^A-IMIIES ST. 

AIEBICAL WORKS, BOOKS used /jy art course, 
SCIEJYCE TEXT ROOKS, 

THE VARIOUS THEOLOGICAL HOOKS. 

Full Assortment in Stock and Supplied at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbing Books, Ac., Ac., 

« * ■ BE9T;!V ALiUIE’IN.jTOWN — , _ 

Stylographic Pens, Anti-Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty. 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

333 St. James Street, 

-ALSO 

Branch Store 1423 St. Catherine St. 



(near the court-house,) 

MONTREAL 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 

Vol. xi.] McGill college, Montreal, November 16 th, 1887. [No. 3. 



Unibersitg 



BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

Jeffrey H. Burland, B. Ap. Sc., F.C.S., President . 

C. W. Hoare, Med. *88, Vice-President. 

J. F. Mackie, B.A., B.C.L., Sec.-Treas. 

A. Drummond, Science ’88. 

W. Dixon, B.A. 

C. F. Martin, Arts ’88. 

J. A. Elliott, Arts *90. 

EDITORS. 

Raleigh J. Elliot, B.C.L., Editor -in-Chief. 

C. L. Wheeler, B.A., Med. '89. 

J. A. MacPhail, Arts ’88. 

A. P. Solandt, B.A. 

B. E. C. Mason, Arts *88. 

W. J. Delaney, Med. ’89. 

R. H. Clerk, B.A., Law *89. 

W. H. Hopkins, Science "88. 

Blanche B. Evans, Corresponding Editor for Ladies' Dept. 
The University Gazette will be published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which 
rule no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

All communications may be addressed to the Editors, P. 0. 
Box 1290. 

We do not hold ourselves responsible for the opinions expressed 
by correspondents. 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE. 

Editorials 27-28 

Contributions 28-32 

McGill News 33-34 

Societies 34 

Sporting 34-35 

Personals 35 

Exchanges 35-36 

College News 36 

Between the Lectures 36-37 

Correspondence 37-38 



Editorials. 



THE MEDICAL FACULTY DINNER. 

Medical students are without doubt the hardest 
worked men in the University. They have more 
lectures, more matter in the lectures, and more to do 
outside of the lectures than the students of any other 
faculty. To such an extent is their time occupied, 
that their opportunities for social enjoyment are few 
and far between. 



The Medical dinner, we presume, was instituted for 
the purpose of giving Medical students a chance to 
see one another in a social and convivial light and to 
enable them to display or to appreciate, as the case 
might be, qualities which, while fitting them all the 
more for a physician’s life, are not distinctively 
medical. 

Now, the Dinner given last year was much more 
likely to cast an opaque gloom over the life of any 
student that attended it. The speeches were too 
numerous, too long, too dry, and there was not enough 
music. 

What is the idea of toasting, at a Medical dinner* 
the Queen, the Governor General, the Mayor and 
Corporation, and a host of other people who do not 
know the difference between the metatarsus and the 
pancreas 1 Why have two speeches to every toast ? 

Each toast should be proposed by the chairman and 
answered by one man, in a speech as terse and bright 
as he can make it. After this, there should be some 
music of a quick and frivolous nature, that will com- 
pel everybody to feel jolly, and also give them an 
opportunity to talk. Last year one speech succeeded 
another with overwhelming and stupefying rapidity, 
— so that everyone was glad to crawl home to bed, 
with the last two toasts cut from the list. 

A dinner which will fill in the outlines we have 
traced, will be one to be remembered with feelings of 
gratitude and pleasure. 



Among the many classes of students benefited by 
our University, none receive so many privileges, and 
at so reasonable a rate, as the theological students. 
Still, in spite of what the University does for them, 
we regret to say that very few theologs. take any 
active interest in anything for the general good of the 
University. The majority do nothing whatever in 
support of our college schemes. The Undergraduates’ 
Literary Society, the Reading Room, the Athletic 
Association, the University Gazette, each and all 
may fail for aught they care. Even the McGill Y.M. 
C.A., which we consider as especially worthy of their 
support and countenance, is left entirely alone by the 
majority of theological students. 

Fellow students, this state of affairs should end : 
your influence and help is needed in support of one 
or more of our college societies. Will you give it, and 



28 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1887. 



help to make our college renowned for the strong 
spirit of brotherhood among its students, or will you 
stand aloof, because, forsooth, everything is not 
managed according to your wishes ? Many of you do 
your duty well, but if the interests of our college are 
to flourish as they should, each must do his duty. 



Contributions. 

A COUNTRY BOY. 

[Written for the University Gazette.] 

By Nihil V. Erius. 

CHAPTER II. — ( Continued .) 

Peter thoroughly enjoyed the concert. He clapped 
enthusiastically, even once rising to his feet to ap- 
plaud a very fine bit of play, which he pronouneed 
very near'y equal to that of Mr. Forbes. He spoke 
little during the performances ; which pleased Edith, 
for, unlike many of her sex, she had actually gone to 
hear the music, and not to see and be seen. Though 
her escort’s actions chagrined her several times, she 
felt less angry with him than she expected she would, 
and found herself studying him, much as a naturalist 
would study some new zoological prize. She was a 
keen judge of character, and possessed, to an eminent 
degree, the power, with which Nature seems to have 
endowed her weaker children, of determining instinc- 
tively and at once the black sheep from the white. 
She went much upon impulse, and in this case her 
impulse seemed at fault. She could not decide 
whether she actually hated Peter, or merely tolerated 
him. She was surprised at his flashes of intelligence, 
overlaid as they were by his rough country ways. 
Yet she soon found Peter’s great fault. As she ex- 
pressed it forcibly to Alice, on retiring for the night : 

“ The first word he learnt to speak was not ‘mamma,’ 
but ‘I.’ ” 

Had Peter stood on his head he would have de- 
clared the world upside down. 

On the whole, she concluded that when he had got 
some city polish he would be a remarkably clever 
fellow, and a credit to his sweetheart at home, for, 
she reasoned, all college boys have a sweetheart some- 
where, who pushes them along, and therefore must he. 
She determined to ask him about this sweetheart if 
she ever got to know him well. If Alice’s hobby was 
babies, Edith’s was sweethearts — not her own, but 
everybody else’s. She was in nearly every love affair 
in the district, especially the unfortunate ones, and 
very sage advice often came out of her pretty head for 
some unlucky lover. She never told or ridiculed any 
of these affairs, and even grim Betsy, the cook, who 
hated men like spiders, had confided in Edith’s sym- 
pathetic ear the tale of her early love. 

“ But he was took, Miss Edith. He was took for 
stealing, and they found my own watch on him as he 
had stole from me, and I niver trusted wan of thim 
men since. Barrin’ your father, Miss Edith, they’re 
a bad lot. They’ll stale your watch, or your savings, 



or your heart, whichever’s the handiest, and you 11 
niver see sorra wan of thim agin.” 

Concerts do not last for ever, and Peter was soon 
on his homeward journey, with a queer feeling at his 
heart that he could not define. He had drawn his 
first breath in the dawn of his new era, and stood like 
a man in a strange land waiting to see what the sun- 
rise would reveal. He felt attracted to this life as 
a duckling that is hatched among chickens is still 
drawn towards the stream. He loved his old life, 
however, and mentally conti asted Edith’s haughty 
ways with Lizzie’s loving manners, much to Edith’s 
disadvantage, for scorn is sometimes equal on both 
sides. Yet, he admired Edith — we would kill him 
at once with a drop of ink if he did not — and resolved 
to study this family and perfect himself as much as 
possible in city ways. 

Thanks to Mr. James, Peter had found a very nice 
boarding-house, with only a few other students in it. 
Mr. James could, of course, have found him lodgings 
away from student life altogether, but deemed it best 
to place Peter in the atmosphere, if not of study, at 
least of college. Peter easity passed his matriculation 
examination, and chose medicine for his profession. 
In regard to himself, he was not long in finding out 
how differently he was dressed from those around 
him, even in every-day attire, but his native thriftiness 
would not permit him to make a change as yet. He 
was much surprised at the sights and sounds of the 
great city in which he found himself, and wandered 
up and down the streets, and in and out of the 
churches and public buildings with a very countrified 
look upon his face. The mountain, crowned Avith its 
autumnal glories, was a source of endless delight to 
him, giving him breathing time, as it were, from the 
atmosphere and characteristics of the city ; for, ambi- 
tious as he Avas, he still had the country in his heart, 
and longed to feel the grass under his feet. There 
Avas one short ravine on the Avestern scarp of the 
mountain, on the road to the cemetery, Avhich, to him, 
brought back the recollection of the school-house dell ; 
and there he used to go Avhen home-sick and heart- 
sick, as he often was during the early days of his 
college life. 

He was kindly welcomed by his various teachers, 
to some of Avhom he had brought letters from Mr. 
Forbes, for they saAv at once in him the promise of a 
brilliant maturity. His lessons in Nature, under Mr. 
Forbes’ training, had brought forth great fruit. He 
had not yet torn the floAvers to pieces, but to him 
science was not a dead thing, but a living creature. 

FloAvers Avere not names, but happy realities to 
him, and, when he learned the secrets of their life, it 
Avas like hearing the soft confidences of some little 
child. It is not to be Avondered, therefore, that 
Peter entered vigorously into his studies, and Avon 
golden opinions from his professors. Nor is it to be 
wondered at that he found himself a source of sur- 
prise to his fellow-students. Most of his ideas Avere 
unique, and worked out by his own mental efforts, 
and often conflicted Avith prevailing opinions. He 
soon found, like every original thinker, that many of 
his ideas had occurred to others long before his time, 
and had sometimes been proved erroneous. The life 



1887.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



29 



of the individual is an epitome of the life of the race, 
and Peter had been passing through the savage and 
the semi-civilized periods, and the middle ages, and 
was only now arriving at his Victorian era. 

Autumn slipped on into winter, and Peter, as he 
faced the snow storms in his morning walks to col- 
lege, often found himself back at Prankville in his 
thoughts. And at night, when returning from his 
dissections, the yellow glare of the street lamps in 
the distance sometimes seemed to him, through the 
storm, as the old familiar light, whose steady rays 
guided his noiseless footsteps along the snow-clad 
road to the farm-house by the well. He had become 
acquainted with a number of students, most of them, 
strange to say, city hoys, and under their influence 
was very slowly altering in his manner. Their influ- 
ence was unconscious, for, like an iceberg, he kept 
the atmosphere around him near his own temperature, 
but he was, like the berg, being slowly undermined, 
and would some day topple over into a new state of 
equilibrium, and woe to the unfortunates who had 
trusted in him ! 

Once a week, for a shorter or longer time, Peter 
showed himself at the James’. Some days he would 
be closeted with Mr. James all the time of his visit; 
at other times he would be received by the family, 
and entertained with conversation, or, perhaps, a game 
of cards, backgammon, or checkers. On these occa- 
sions Edith was often absent, or excused herself early 
in the evening. Alice, who had got it into her head 
that, in one sense, this giant was a baby, treated him 
very kindly, but very often brought a smile even to 
his lips by bringing forward some childish occupation 
for him to engage in. She kept him all one evening 
cutting and pasting pictures in a scrap-book. Edith, 
for a long time after this, privately called him “ knight 
of the scissors and paste-pot.” 

But there was one thing that Peter could do that 
always brought Edith to the fore. It has been said 
that he was no musician, but it must be added that 
he had a fine voice, and knew how to use it, in a way. 
Many an evening he spent in the parlor, singing, 
while Edith would seat herself in one window, and, 
looking out into the night, dream such dreams — as 
she listened to the singer or to her sister — as few but 
poets or children ever dream. Music was Edith’s 
hobby ; when a baby she had escaped from her nurse 
and wandered off with an organ-grinder, who seized 
the opportunity of turning an extra penny by passing 
her off as his, which her dirty condition made plau- 
sible. He had no intention of stealing her, though 
he very nearly found himself within the gaol walls ; 
but when Providence threw the child his way, he 
reasoned that he would have been wrong not to avail 
himself of his opportunity. Her brown curls, even 
then luxuriant, betrayed her to her own father, who 
was passing, and in the scene that ensued it was 
lucky, perhaps, for her future respect for his moral 
character that she was too young to grasp the meaning 
of all he said to the organ-grinder. 

One of these musical evenings marks an important 
station in Peter’s railroad of life. Edith had been 
listening, as usual, until her heart, that always felt 
chilly towards Peter, had warmed so far as to hide, 



for a time, her dislike for him. Peter, on his part, 
had grown kindlier under the influence of his sur- 
roundings. His heart was on the latch, though he 
knew it not, and before he could lock it Edith crept 
in. 

Stop, stop, reader ! Do not run away with the 
idea that he fell plump in love with this girl of 
fifteen, though we have known the thing happen 
before his time. No ; he was true to Lizzie, and we 
only mean that Edith kept the resolution she made 
the night of the concert, and asked him if he had a 
sweetheart, and got a reply. 

But she was too clever a girl, too sympathetic, if 
you prefer the term, to attack him in front in this 
way. She out-flanked him, and this was how she did 
it. The elder folks were upstairs, not a very usual 
circumstance with them, and he had been singing 
with the girls. Edith, as usual, had ensconced her- 
self in the bow window amid the curtains, and was 
listening. Alice had begun a very beautiful piano- 
forte piece, and Peter had also withdrawn himself to 
the window, where Edith sat. She greeted him with 
a smile, and, after a few minutes’ silence, said to him : 

“ Do you know, Mr. Simson, what kind of songs 
you sing best? ” 

“ No, Miss Edith, what kind are they 1 ” 

“ You sing the love songs best. It always seems 
to me as if you put your heart into them.” 

Now, had Peter been city bred, he would, probably, 
have turned this off with a neat compliment to Miss 
Edith, who would have taken it for what it was 
worth, and no harm done. But he was still an un- 
polished gem, that, instead of reflecting light from so 
many facets that one could not see its interior, gleamed 
brilliantly enough, but was quite transparent. He 
only said — 

“ Perhaps you are right, Miss Edith.” 

Edith laid one hand upon his arm as he sat, half 
unconscious now of his surroundings in the thoughts 
of Lizzie that flocked about him. 

“ Will you not tell me about her, Mr. Simson 1 ’* 
she asked, softly, yet with childish eagerness. 

And thus she won his confidence. 

To understand her victory, you must place yourself 
in his position, you must hear the music that was 
falling on his ears, you must have lifted yourself in 
song, like the lark, into an atmosphere that the thought 
of deceit or hate does not enter, and lastly, but by no 
means the least, you must be questioned by a pair of 
brown eyes, full of sympathy, and have a heart that, 
like those of most lovers, is only too ready to betray 
itself if it can get a listener. 

Peter told her everything, even to Lizzie’s refusal 
to become engaged, and her fear that he would forget 
her. There was a fine tone of scorn in his voice when 
he reached this last part of his confidence, and Edith’s 
eyes sparkled in sympathy as he repeated his vow 
never to forget his country sweetheart. 

Alice, meanwhile, had finished her piece, and 
turned to see what the others were doing. Much to 
her surprise, and somewhat to her annoyance, she saw 
them seated in the window, while Peter was discours- 
ing volubly about something. Alice was a shrewd 
girl, and if she did not like the neglectful manner in 



30 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1887. 



which she was being treated, she rejoiced to see her 
sister interested in Peter, for Alice had begun to con- 
sider him a kind of protege , and was glad to see him 
getting into any one’s good graces. So, instead of 
rising and interrupting the tete-a-tete , she glided softly 
into a dreamy piece of music, and in her own way 
played an important part in the conversation. What- 
ever it was about, she felt sure that t dith would tell 
her afterwards, for neither sister had a secret from 
the other. 

After Peter had gone, and while the girls were pre- 
paring to retire, Alice turned to Edith and said — 

“What were you two talking about so earnestly to- 
night while I was playing 1 ?” 

“ Oh, confidences,” said Edith, lightly. 

“ Well,” replied Alice, sharply, “ you needn’t tell 
unless you like, but it was rude of you, to say the 
least.” 

Edith came up to her sister, and, kissing her, 
said — 

“ There, there, sobersides, don’t be angry. What- 
ever it was, I like your country baby the better 
for it.” 

And Peter, on his road home, thought to himself 
that Miss Edith was not nearly so haughty as he had 
thought, and came very near being as lovely a girl as 
Lizzie. He would tell Lizzie about her in his next 
letter. 

But, strange to say, he did not. 

( To be continued.) 



THE LAYS OF OLD. 



BY CARL FULLER. 

Within the last year or two the subject of Canadian 
History has begun to receive some degree of attention 
amongst our English speaking population, but it is 
only within the last year or two, and even now in a very 
limited circle of students. It is a subject which has 
long been considered too trivial and unimportant to 
merit the attention of scholars from the European 
universities, and as our teachers have been largely 
drawn from this class, the idea thus instilled into the 
mind of the Canadian youth remained persistent in 
the Canadian man. That there should be anything of 
interest or much less of value, in the narrative of the 
settlement of a forest primeval, peopled by savages — 
both biped and quadruped — seemed incredible, and 
that the history of a country, which had been known 
to Europeans for a couple of hundred years only, 
should have anything to teach the representatives of 
a glorious nationality, with a pedigree of a thousand 
years of civilization and progress, seemed absurd. 
Aside from all this, the chief annals of this paltry 
colony were written in French, and there were few — 
if any — complete collections in the hands of English 
Canadians, so that the teacher turned from it in disgust, 
and set himself to hammer Romulus and Remus the 
mother of the Graecii, King Alfred and the cakes, or 
the building of the Great Wall of China, into his little 
pupils, who acquired a confused mass of dates and facts 
about antiquities, but remained in the grossest igno- 



rance of the most striking changes in their mother- 

Fenimore Cooper popularised the redman, and then . 
Francis Parkman arose, and in a brilliant series ot 
histories, he worked the rich vein of this continent, 
broke away the rubbish which had accumulated about 
it, and gave us many samples of the rich historic ore 
which lies embedded in our soil. Parkman’s books 
have all the interest of a well written novel j he has 
a keen appreciation of the artistic, which expresses 
itself not only in his vivid and sometimes florid de- 
scriptions of the magnificent scenery amid which the 
events are enacted, but also in his dramatic grouping 
of the events themselves. He strives after effect, inter- 
mingling graceful touches of romantic legend with the 
sterner features of the early days. How much scope 
there is for such writing becomes evident to the most 
superficial student, and the wonder is that the subject 
should have lain so long neglected. The contrasts 
presented in the settlement of the colony of New 
France are difficult to realize, so curious and so rare is 
the mingling of the highest civilization with untutored 
savagery. Take, for instance, the time when the noble 
Count of Frontenac was governor of New France, and 
had his court at Quebec. The Count occupied the 
Chateau of St. Louis, beautifully situated upon the 
great rock of Quebec, from whence it commanded one 
of the grandest bits of scenery in the world. 

Around the Chateau clustered the few buildings 
which constituted the town, notable amongst which 
were, as now, the church and other buildings of the 
religious orders. Let us endeavour to recall the scene, 
and the better to do so we shall say it is the 1 8th Oct., 
1673. As we stand admiring the many beauties of 
the autumnal landscape, we hear the clank of armour 
in the court yard, mingled with an occasional word 
of command, and then gentlemen wearing the graceful 
and showy costume of the times are seen to pass into 
the chateau. The military looking man is the Sieur 
Chartier, lieutenant general at Quebec, and his com- 
panion, whose bronzed face shows ' that he knows 
something of the distant trading ports, is the Sieur le 
Ber, these two having been summoned to complete the 
number of councillors required when matters of the 
first importance are to be discussed. Inside the chateau, 
we follow these gentlemen into a large room, roughly 
but substantially finished in wood, in the centre of 
which a group of councillors is already assembled. 
One figure immediately attracts attention, the restless 
Count of Frontenac, who walks impatiently to and fro 
across the room, stopping now and then at the open 
casement which commands a view of the harbour, in 
which several vessels ride at anchor. The day is fine, 
and the Governor’s eye passes from the ships, across 
the noble river to the Island of Orleans, and then 
far away where the line of hills indicated the course 
of the St. Lawrence upon its journey to the sea. 
The old nobleman’s thoughts appear to follow the 
direction suggested by the river, and he recalls the 
distant capital or the gay court of Versailles, where he 
sees the mighty Louis surrounded by his dazzling 
throng of brilliant courtiers. How distant are the 
beautiful gardens in which he has so often wandered 
when the air was filled with soft music and the hum 



1837 .] 



UNIVEKSITY GAZETTE. 



31 



of cultured voices softened by tlie rustling silks, the 
frou frou so suggestive to gallant ears ; where he has 
watched the moonlight coming and going through the 
swaying branches of the stately trees, or silvering the 
spray that falls in showers about the hundred fountains 
of the Trianon. 

^ With a sigh of regret he turns again towards the 
Council table, and in a few minutes the Sovereign 
Council of New France is in session. The Governor 
presides, and in the minutes he is given all his titles, 
namely : “ Hault et puissant Seigneur M. Louis de 
Buade Frontenac, Chevalier Comte de Palluan, Con- 
seiller du Roy en ses Conseils, Gouverneur et Lieutenant 
G4n4ral pour Sa Majesty en Canada, Acadye, Isle de 
Terreneuful et autres pais de la France Septentrio- 
nale.” The other councillors are Messrs Tilly, Damours, 
Dupont de Peyras, de Yitray and the representative 
of the attorney-general is also present. 

The council has on this occasion met as the Court 
of Superior jurisdiction in criminal matters. Three 
prisoners are before it, all membei’s of the crew of the 
ship “ le prince Manriel ” then in the port of Quebec ; 
they are Oiiannot Etchigar^, chief steward, Joannis de 
Clannet, a sailor, and Jean Duhalde, the captain, all 
accused of participation in the murder of Simon Baston, 
a merchant of Rochelle. When the Council has been 
formally opened, the crown prosecutor lays on the table, 
with much ceremony, a bulky record of the proceedings 
which have already taken place. Referring to these 
papers he relates the circumstances of the case, showing 
that on the 23rd of August, 1 673, the prisoners had 
been arraigned before the Governor and examined by 
nim, the result, whether admissions or negations, being 
carefully recorded. Upon this the Governor had 
• ssued a commission to Tilly, the senior councillor, 
with power to continue the investigations of the case • 
and the prosecutor now reads the results of this enquiry, 
with tedious details of the days upon which the com- 
missioner held his investigation, and the facts elicited 
upon each occasion, to mention all of which would 
force us to exceed the space allotted by the editors. 
After due deliberation the council pronounced the 
following judgment, which is not without interest as 
showing the condition of this country at that time, and 
which may be thus translated ; — “ The council has de 
creed that Oiiannot Etchigare and Joannis de Clannet 
shall be sent, with the papers of record, before the Court 
of Admiralty at Rochelle, that the facts may be more 
fully verified, either from their own statements, or by 
the evidence of Martecot Pensola, of Cranston, near 
Bayonne, captain of a ship that was this year on a 
fishing voyage at Gasp4 ; or of Miel Sales, of Bibart, 
between St. John du Laz and Bayonne, surgeon of the 
said ship; or of the Captains Joannis Hiriart et 
Cazenault, who also made fishing voyages this year to 
Perc^e Island ; and other evidence which may be more 
readily obtained and understood at the said Admiralty 
Court than in this Council, seeing the difficulty of 
finding here reliable interpreters who are sufficiently 
familiar with the Basque language. That the said case 
be finally tried before the said Admiralty Court, to 
which end the said Etchigar^ and de Clannet shall be 
handed over to some of the captains of the vessels at 
present in the harbour, who shall be charged, one with 



each, to carry and deliver them without delay to the 
said Admiralty Court, which they shall do under 
penalty of answering in their own persons for default, 
and they shall receive the certificate of the said 
Admiralty Court and bring or send the same back to 
this Council, and be thus discharged ; and as for the 
said Duhalde, he shall present himself before the said 
Admiralty Court immediately on his arrival at Rochelle; 
costs finally reserved.” 

Now I have selected a case at haphazard and from 
those reported in the judgments of the Sovereign 
Council, and even this case indicates many interesting 
topics for research. What was the model or the origin 
of the Sovereign Council in New France 1 Whence 
came the Basque fishermen who seem to have annually 
swarmed to the fishing grounds of the St. Lawrence ? 
What was the value of the fisheries at this early date ? 
What did these vessels bring to Canada? We find 
the judicial system apparently well organized and the 
pomp and circumstance of the court room carefully 
observed, and all this on the grand old rock of Quebec, 
a single point on the vast wilderness untrodden save 
by savages and the Jesuit missionaries who sought to 
baptise and convert them, or the wild coureurs du 
bois, lured into the forests by the rich spoils of the 
chase and the lawless freedom of the wigwams. Our 
early history certainly is full of the most startling and 
picturesque contrasts, and offers an attractive field of 
work from many points of view. 



THE PAN MAGILLIAN GAMES. 
(translated by request.) 

CCV. — Now, I have not aforetime told of the 
tribes of the Magilloi, who live amid the barbarian 
Kanadioi, whose tyrant is a mighty man called Doson ; 
and him the Magilloi name with their wonted irony, 
for by name he is the giver, yet he gives not but 
begs. 

Now, the Magilloi are separated into tribes, of 
whom the number is five. The Artoi, whose tyrant 
is one Patos Donides, who weareth little round 
brightnesses on his eyes and maketh mighty noises in 
his throat, so that he keepeth his tribe, which are 
turbulent, in subjection. And the tyrant of the tribe 
of the Skientioi is one Boeios, for he is like an ox, 
mighty in body. Now, those of the Medicoi and 
Gheoloknoi 1 know not, and these last are well termed 
“ Shunners of Hades.” Howbeit, the Medicoi regard 
not Hades nor yet fear man nor Zeus. For they arm 
themselves with the bones of the dead and fight 
valiantly, singly or by tribes, when selene shine 
against the Bactrophoroi , or club-bearers, who in- 
habit the chief city of the Kanadioi. 

CCVI. — Now, it would seem fitting that I should 
speak of the great gathering in autumn at the Pan 
Magillian games. And for that I say these games are 
in autumn, let no man think Helios shines and 
Zephyros blows, as is wont in Hellas. For here 
Helios shines brightly in summer, but in autumn is 
Boreas and snow and much rain. But how the 
Magillians scorn cold and Boreas one may know from 
many things. Not only considering how they fight 
in autumn by fifteens, clad only in a tunic until tlmir 



32 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1887. 



flesh be blue, but also how they fight by sevens in 
the winter on the ice in honor of the god Hokeios. 
Now, the captain of the fifteen warriors is one Max- 
eus, and the priest of the god Hokeios is Leukos, or 
Shining Bright. Now, they who think such things 
sport, what marvel if they gather Pan Magillian 
games, not in the hot month Hecatanleion , 

like Helenes, but under Boreas, exulting in cold like 
to barbarians, or whales, or hairy dogs. 

And for the contest they have many a strange pre- 
paration, both severally and in common. For sever- 
ally the strongest and swiftest practise many days 
running (not once only) round the closed field at 
nightfall, when they have escaped from the last Wis- 
dom of the Wisemen, throwing also the leather egg, 
both the greater and the lesser one, and leaping also 
privately, and other such ways, plentifully. 

And in common they make other and more marvel- 
lous preparations. For they summon an ecclesia and 
elect certain overseers of the contest. And these 
overseers bind on their bosoms certain marvellous and 
beautiful red ribbons, such as are found in no other 
land save only among the Magilloi, and they duly 
appoint the day of the Pan Magillia and ordain the 
needful taxes. And next the overseers make a truce 
by holy custom with the Wisemen, that they shall on 
the spoken days furnish no wisdom throughout the 
day, but those shall in turn allot certain places whence 
the Wisemen and their wives and daughters may see. 
And there the Wisemen and women and many 
strangers stand, scorning Boreas and snows and temp- 
ests. For many come from all the earth, both all the 
Magilloi and Aligarchs, and Wisemen and women, 
and guests, and Autochthones, and mean fellows from 
the market-place, and even Gauls and Teutons, and 
many Magillian rebels, and even there is when an 
Ephor. 

CCVII. — And when all is prepared, the overseers 
assemble and make edicts, and the overseers are chosen 
by the ecclesias of the tribe, and the prince of the 
overseers is one Panpedon, or Spring- All, for he leaps 
wonderfully, and hath left a record, and of the tribe 
of the Sanoi is one Blastanon, or Budding, called by 
Magillian irony from his moustache, and a third is 
Chenideus, or Gosling, in the aforetime a well-girt 
runner. 

Such, then, are the overseers, and they make many 
edicts. For first they stop all common practices such 
as Wisdom and Singing. And then they proclaim 
also armistice from war between the tribes, as at 
Olympia. Next they order a Helot to prepare the 
course, and to fortify all the field with palisades, but 
instead of battlements they put on the stakes a bar- 
barian rope. And then they bid the scribe to make 
little oracles of the games, and this he does by press- 
ing cold white tablets to the black face of a groaning 
god in a cave in the market-place, and other edicts 
they make on the end of the tablets which are mostly 
dark to know, but one is easy and tyranous, that 
whatever word the overseers say shall prevail, and no 
man resist it. 

CCVIII. — And when all men are come, the over- 
seers order the Pan Magillia to begin. And first they 
kick the greater leather egg between two ropes. And 



then they leap between staves over a lathe, and hurl 
the lesser leather egg a plethron, and leap wide 
trenches, and send forward a few paces a mighty lump 
of iron that fell from heaven, and run leaping over 
many palisades. And next they run a thousand paces 
round the closed field. And some say that the over- 
seers make signal to run by the falling oi a linen 
fragment. But others say by a magical image oi iron 
which eats black powder and wears little copper hats. 
And when the hat is smitten hard on his head, he 
thunders and lightens with wrath ; and so they ap- 
pease him with more black powder and another hat, 
till wishing him to thunder again they smite him once 
more. And how this is I know not, but they run 
then, however, a thousand paces. They next like- 
wise run a contest of 500 paces, and others yet shorter. 
And in all these contests one of the Wisemen stands 
by the post and counts marvellously. For he holds 
a strange oyster in his hand with a silver shell. And 
the heart of the fish ever throbs, and round his white 
face runs a black hair, completing the round in sixty 
throbs. And they measure by faces and throbs. And 
whenever the first runner touches the post the Wise- 
man pinches the fish and the hair is stayed, so that 
the man can number the throbs and know how quickly 
he ran. And a moderate man will run a thousand 
paces in five faces of the fish and a few throbs, but a 
well-girt man will run it in four faces and forty throbs. 
And the shortest contest of one plethron they run in 
ten throbs, so marvellous is the fish. 

CCIX. — And after the ordinary contest they end 
with laughable and portentious contest, whereof they 
say things hardly believable had not I heard it from 
a Magillian priest ; and how shall he lie 1 for priests 
are not allowed to lie, and Magillians do not desire to 
do it. These things, anyhow, they say. On the other 
hand, therefore, they have a Helkustinda, or Tug-of- 
war, in which tribe tugs tribe with groaning and sweat 
and laughter. 

And most marvellous of all, on the other hand, 
they have a contest of three legged men (which have 
two heads and four arms, but three legs), the middle 
leg moving alone, the outer ones together. And these 
rising, and rolling, and floundering, go like broken- 
winged birds or trodden snakes, till one reach the 
post hardly, but nevertheless. 

CCX. — And the prizes are mostly golden Darias, 
and the tyrant of the Skientioi has given also a mighty 
silver crater, that whomsoever shall win the palisade 
race two Pan Magillia in succession, the same shall 
keep it. 

About the Pan Magillia let this then suffice. 

CCXI. — And after the Pan Magillia the fifteen 
warriors of autumn warfare battled with fifteen war- 
riors from the barbarous country which is towards the 
rising sun. And Maxeus, the captain, fought vali- 
antly, and the Magilloi conquered. Nevertheless, 
Dromeios, they escaping notice, coming down upon 
him suddenly cast upon the ground and brake him, 
and by a little it was for him not to perish. And 
they cast spells upon a mighty warrior, Husos, so that 
he fled to Egypt to worship the golden god there, and 
he fought not with the fifteen warriors of the Magilloi 
that day. About this, then, let so much have been said. 



1887.] 



UNIVEKSITY GAZETTE. 



33 



GLEANINGS. 

None of us are infallible, not even tbe youngest 
member of the youngest class, and there is just a pos- 
sibility that such an one may be beside the mark in 
his estimate of any particular course or any single 
professor, the more especially when these are held in 
the highest repute by special workers in the same 
field. 

* 

* * 

There are in the several halls notices, warning the 
student public that the respective faculties do not 
assume any obligation for the various garments en- 
trusted to their care. This is in itself a confession of 
weakness and inability to fulfil a mere legal duty, and 
leaves the cloak-rooms, as they always were, “ a den of 
thieves.” 

* 

★ * 

This laxity of opinion as to the line between meum 
and tuum is a source of heart-burning to the professors 
as well, if the posted notice for the apprehension of 
“the thief” be any index. It is the old story. 
When a man needs an article he must have it. Stu- 
dents of Medicine need bones. They cannot buy 
them, they cannot borrow them. Bones are not pro- 
vided, and the only avenue open is to take them. 
One authority, temporarily of a facetious turn of 
mind, ascribes the evanescence of these articles to 
moral rather than to physical causes. 

* 

* * 

Practical anatomy, we should imagine, was hideous 
enough under even ideal circumstances, and it is as 
much the part of a Medical School to detract from 
the repulsiveness of it as to make it thorough. McGill 
has acknowledged this by the improving of the room, 
by increased cleanliness, and by appointing additional 
demonstrators. Students, of course, will appreciate 
these advantages ; but, then, at times there is a tend- 
ency to call to mind the strict bargain that was 
entered into at the first of the session, when for such 
privileges was given a corresponding number of 
material dollars. This remembrance will prevent the 
sensitive Med. from being oppressed by a sense of 
undue obligation. 

* 

5k 5k 

Our University is passing through that crisis com. 
mon to all institutions when men speak well ot them- 
And it rests with us as to whether or not we will come 
through with dignity, or find that we had assumed 
more than we could justify. With us — because as 
the Principal truly put it — all, even to the most 
recent undergraduate, are members of the one body, 
owin' 1, fidelity to the same Alma Mater. And if Mc- 
Gill will ever stand less nobly in the eyes of the 
world than now, the cause will be “ from herself," it 
will be that the interests, aim, and attitude of her 
sons began to be set up in antagonism to those of the 
authorities who had her in their keeping. 



Few buildings show off to such good advantage as 
the Peter Kedpath Museum when brilliantly lighted, 



and then it borrowed a glow from the well-dressed 
people inside. Good clothes and good manners are 
not everything, but they are something. They are 
the outcome of the same processes that make life to- 
day of whatever kind it is. All these things make 
for discipline, and no student can afford to disregard 
them ; and, besides, there is said to have been nothing 
objectionable in the speeches, and the cake was of 
undoubted quality. 

* 

* * 

Granted that they have an idea, most men can find 
ready expression for it. The Societies — educational 
and all the rest of it — keep the world talking ; an 
excellent thing ; but the necessary thing is to have 
the mind in a receptive attitude — the attitude for re- 
ceiving truth. 



3flc6ill Kems. 



The Law Students have elected Henry Fry, Jr., as 
their Valedictorian for this year. Mr. Fry is a man 
well suited for the task. 

The Medical Faculty has chosen the committee for 
the approaching dinner. A. E. Orr and Hewitt, for 
the 4th year, Gemmill and Delaney, for the 3rd year, 
Coleman and Jento, for the 2nd year, and Leroy and 
Marten for the freshmen. Thursday, December 1st, 
has been decided on as the date for holding the 
dinner. 

The Lady Students in the Faculty of Arts have 
elected the following officers for the ensuing year : — 



4th Year 


President. 


Miss D. McFee. 




Secretary. 


<< 


M. Murphy. 


3rd Year 


President. 


tt 


M. Squire. 


it 


Vice-President. 


it 


H. Keid. 


it 


Secretary. 


a 


A. Wilson. 


2nd Year 


President. 


tt 


M. Abbott. 


it 


Secretaiy. 


a 


A. Williams. 


lstjY ear 


President. 


a 


C. Mooney. 


it 


Secretary. 


a 


J. Baillie. 


Corresponding Editor on ) 
University Gazette. \ 


a 


B. B. Evans. 



The lady undergraduates and partial students held 
a meeting on Wednesday, October 19th, to discuss the 
cap and gown question, Miss McFee, President of the 
4th year, in the chair. It was unanimously decided 
to petition the Faculty to allow lady undergraduates 
to wear gowns at convocation and during lectures. In 
compliance with this petition, the Faculty has passed 
a regulation approved by corporation, “ that under- 
graduates in this department shall be entitled to wear 
the academic dress.” This is in accordance with the 
precedent of European and American Universities, 
and the ladies, in adopting the college uniform, will 
feel themselves more completely identified with their 
Alma Mater. 

There are 104 ladies attending lectures at McGill, 
21 undergraduates, 17 partials, and 64 occasionals. 
The graduating class has been reduced from 9 to 8. 
Perhaps this has something to do with the fact that, in 
September, the 4th year ladies each received a dainty 
package, tied with white satin ribbon. 

The “ Smallpox year ” is now 3rd in order, and 3 



34 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1887. 



in number ; one of its members also having departed. 
She is visiting friends in the old country, and it is 
hoped will resume her studies here next year. 

Seven ladies will go up for the Intermediate exam- 
ination, while 1 1 have entered the first year ; 3 as 
undergraduates, and 8 as partials taking the full course. 
We are glad to see such a large class of merry first 
year students, and wish them much happiness and 
success in the studies upon which they are entering. 



Societies. 



The Faculty has been requested to recognize the 
Delta Sigma as a College Society. 

The first regular meeting of the Delta Sigma was 
held on Tuesday, October 18th, the subject for debate 
being : “ Should public schools be preferred to 

private ? ” The speakers for the affirmative were Miss 
Reid and Miss Wilson, while Miss Abbott and Miss 
Botterell supported the negative. After a spirited 
debate on both sides, the vote was taken in favour of 
the affirmative. 

The first meeting of the Moot Court for this year 
was held on the 2nd inst., Prof. Hutchinson presid- 
ing. 

The argument took place upon a motion to quash a 
capias. Mr. H. A. Budden, B.A., and R. A. Dunton, 
N.P., appeared for the Defendant, and Mr. John 
Ferguson and Mr. Charles A. Barnard, for the Plain- 
tiff. After a very thorough and eloquent discussion, 
judgment was rendered in favour of the Defendant. 

It is expected Prof. Trenholme will preside at the 
next session of the Court. 



THE DELTA SIGMA SOCIETY. 

The third annual meeting of the Delta Sigma, was 
held on Tuesday, October 4th. The Rules and 
Regulations of the Society were read, and a number 
of new members admitted. The following officers 
were elected for the coming year : — 

President Miss 0. G. Ritchie. 

Vice-President. . . . “ M. Squire. 

Secretary-Treasurer.. . “ J. T. Botterell. 

As. Secretary- Treasurer. “ L. Smith. 

I Miss McFee. 

“ Abbott. 

“ M. Evans. 



McGill ladies’ lawn tennis club. 

The L.L.T.C. held their first annual tournament in 
October, on the College grounds. It was thought 
advisable that for this year single sets only should be 
played, though in future it is expected that there will 
be double competition also. Mr. A. Turner very 
kindly presented as a prize, a beautiful tennis racket, 
(champion), double strung, and with a silver plate, 
bearing the date, and the name of the club, with a 
space left for that of the winner. There were twelve 
entries, Miss Reid, the club’s president, being the 
successful competitor. 



UNDERGRADUATES’ LITERARY SOCIETY. 

The usual meeting of the Undergraduates’ Literary 
Society was held on Friday evening, 4th November, 
the President, J. A. MacPhail, in the chair. The 
Society has grown beyond the bounds of the old con- 
stitution, and a new one is being prepared. The 
piano, under the care of Mr. Evans, is found a wel- 
come addition. Mr. Truelle read a capital paper 
on “ Les filles du roi,” drawn in part from a contem- 
porary manuscript. 

The reading was given by D. E. Cameron, and 
after music by the Evans Brothers, the debate was 
taken up. Resolved: — “That culture is more con- 
ducive to happiness than is wealth.” The negative 
was held by Messrs. Elliot, Reid, and Holden, and 
the affirmative by Messrs. Macallum, Bryson, and 
Deeks. The meeting expressed an opinion in favor 
of culture. An exhaustive review of the proceedings 
was given by Mr. Harvie. It was announced, on be- 
half of the Special Committee, that Dr. Johnson, vice- 
Principal, would deliver a lecture, under the auspices 
of the Society, on the 25th November. 



Sporting. 



FOOTBALL. * 

On Friday evening, Oct. 8th, the college football 
team, after considerable hesitancy (owing to the ex- 
orbitant rates), set out for Toronto, to play a match 
game with the “ ’Varsity” team. The greater part of 
the night was whiled away in spinning yarns, smoking 
and singing, especially the latter, which, through the 
carefulness of one member present, was never allowed 
to lag for an instant. As the night wore on, and the 
singing member grew hoarser, his chest notes became 
harsher, and later on each solo became one long roar. 
The boys secretly chuckled over this proceeding, en- 
couraging him by frequent plaudits, all with the in- 
tention of averting the terrible calamity, viz., the 
possibility of the “roaring member” favouring the 
dinner with a selection. At last “ Le Marsellaise” was 
called for on all sides, it being well-known as a “voice 
destroyer ; ” the member cheerfully obliged, and the 
auspices were favourable for the completion of the 
boys’ wishes, since he started on a high key. Un- 
doubtedly he was blessed with a voice of iron, coming 
out of the ordeal with unscathed vocal organs. The 
audience perceiving their plan useless, resigned them- 
selves to fate, and one by one quietly retired, to wake 
upon the bright crisp morrow in Toronto None of 
the “ ’Varsity” team was present to meet them, due 
to a misunderstanding as to their coming j but bye 
and bye, the news of their arrival spread, and soon 
their adversaries were on hand to give them a cordial 
welcome. At about 3.15 p. m. both teams were on 
University Lawn, looking in the pink of trim, except- 
ing a few McGill men, who appeared rather haggard, 
and who, later on, were noticed to be the weak part 
of the team. The match throughout was closely con- 
tested, in no way justifying the difference in the score, 
which stood at the close 27 to 7 in favour of “ ’Varsity”. 
This result could have been averted or greatly modi- 



1887.] 



UNIVEKS1TY GAZETTE. 



35 



fied were it not for several individual blunders that 
occurred. The captaining of the team by A. S. McDon- 
nell cannot be too highly spoken of, notwithstanding 
this fact, he received considerable dirt at the hands of 
an obscure sporting reporter in the columns of the 
Toronto World. “ Mac” has ever been a practical and 
popular captain ; his graduation in the coming spring 
will be a severe loss to the football team. 

it may not be out of place to remark that had Mc- 
Gill played with her strongest 18, the results would 
certainly have been different. This game is the 7th 
annual one played between the two colleges, the re- 
sults now stand McGill 4, Toronto University 3. If 
the “ ’Varsity” boys caused the McGill men to droop, 
over the result of their defeat, they certainly most 
effectually amended for every pang suffered, by the 
sumptuous and delicious repast tendered at the Eossin 
House to the vanquished team. A pleasanter and 
jollier lot than those who sat down to the feast would 
be hard to imagine. About one hundred were pre- 
sent, all beaming with good spirits and vieing with one 
another to make the visitors forget their defeat and 
smother their grief with good things. Speeches were 
indulged in, songs were rampant, and a cross-fire of 
pleasantries carried on. The “roaring member” above 
referred to, being called on, blandly and blushingly 
consented. McGill held her breath, and in the lan- 
guage of Bill Nye “ although not members of the 
Knickerbocker club, yet their breath came in short 
pants.” The song w r as finished amid the din of 
hand-clapping and encores, proving it a triumph for 
McGill. Capt. McDonnell replied in a neat, spicy 
speech in behalf of the team, observing that “ the de- 
feat would tend to thresh the team into better shape.” 
Several other McGill boys favoured the assembly with 
songs, among whom were Hamilton, Delaney, and 
Jamieson, all of whom cast credit on their Alma 
Mater. The guests were also treated to a neat speech 
from Billy Hamilton, in which he told how delighted 
and pleased they were with the kindness of the en- 
tertainers. It would be treating the matter mildly to 
state that Toronto University boys royally entertained 
their guests. Both the visiting team and their friends 
chorus the fact, that it was one of the most pleasant 
episodes of their college career. And when all was 
over, and the munificence of “ ’Varsity’s” kindness 
pondered on, one and all were heard to exclaim, 
“Wait till they come to Montreal !” 



Personals. 



C. P. Brown, B.Ap.Sc., ’86, is in Michigan. 

Dr. D. L. Eoss, ’87, is practising in Windsor, Ont. 
Dr. J. M. Scott, ’87, is practising in Philadelphia. 
Dr. J. M. Fraser, ’87, is practising in Lakefield, 
Ont. 

Dr. Jas. Berry, ’87, is practising in Green Springs, 
Nevada. 

Dr. J. A. A. Kelly, ’87, is practising in Wood- 
bridge, Ont. 



Eaoul Einfret, B. Ap. Sc., ’87, is practising at Batis- 
can, Quebec. 

W. H. Dalpe, B. A. ’86, was wedded at Grand Ligne 
a short time ago. 

W. J. Delaney, 3rd year Medicine, has been elected 
secretary of the dinner committee. 

Dr. Eoddick has returned from England. He has 
returned greatly improved in health. 

We regret to state that Frank Pedley, B.A., ’85, has 
been dangerously sick. He is now convalescing 
rapidly. 

George F. Calder, B.A., ’85, has given up school 
teaching. He is now the editor of “ The Watchman,” 
Lachute, Que. 

J. H. Bell, B.A., has been appointed to the proud 
position of chairman for the McGill Medical Faculty’s 
annual dinner. 

The old caretaker of Barnjum’s Gymnasium, famil- 
iarly known as “ William,” has peacefully passed away 
to his long home. 

E. S. Lea, Science, ’89, has accepted a good position 
in his own province, P. E. I., and will complete his 
study in a future year. 

Dr. Boer, ’88, who has been practising near St. 
Louis during the vacation, has returned to McGill for 
a post graduate course. 

J. H. Kennedy, of the final years in medicine, has 
been appointed to represent McGill Medical College 
at Trinity’s annual dinner. 

E. G. McConnell, ’81 Arts, is wintering at Fort 
Providence, below Great Slave Lake, on the McKen- 
zie Eiver, N.W.T. He expects to live on “ fish 
straight ” all winter. 

Dr. Haythorne, ’86, was studying in Paris when last 
heard of, after taking his degree from Edinburgh 
School of Medicine. He requires now a small sized 
page to write his name. 

We have received a letter from Mr. J. E. Clouston, 
which is unavoidably crowded out. 

We regret that the item referring to Mr. Clouston, 
in last issue, should have been at all offensive. 

N. A. F. Bourne, B.A., ’87, has taken to himself a 
wife. He has a fine parish on the Upper Ottawa, 
Thorne ; and is highly esteemed by his people. We 
don’t blame you, old man, for objecting to a thorne 
without its ameliorator. A long and happy life to 
you. 



Exchanges. 



We welcome to our table the following papers, in 
addition to those mentioned in our last issue : Acta 
Victoriana, The ’ Varsity , Sport, The Sunbeam , The 
Atlantis, The Beacon, The University Monthly. 



36 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1887. 



We intend in this column to fairly and generously 
criticise all our exchanges. But he patient, please, if 
all are not noticed and commented on in this issue. 
During this session all will get their share of atten- 
tion. What we do for others, we wish them to do for 
us, and perhaps we at last can find out what a college 
paper should be. Old friends, we are glad to see you 
again. New friends, we cordially welcome you. 

Acta Victor iana first claims our attention. We con- 
gratulate it on its prosperous financial position. The 
article on “ National Sentiment ” has our entire sym- 
pathy. It appeals to all dwellers in our land to he 
unselfishly loyal Canadians. The history of late 
Principal Nelles is told in a plain, simple style, show- 
ing by his deeds that his name will live as long as 
Victoria University“exists. 

The ’ Varsity . — Two able addresses appear in this 
paper, one by President Wilson, and one by Professor 
Wright on Medical Evolution. President Wilson 
spoke with great hopefulness of the future of higher 
education under the newly organized Provincial Uni- 
versity. 

The Sunbeam . — The general appearance of this 
paper is very much in its favor. Its articles are well 
written ; a clever piece of alleged poetry, showing to 
what outrageous lengths the injudicious use of adjec- 
tives, such as “Awfully” “Lovely,” etc., will lead 
many a careless person. 

Sport is, as its name indicates, devoted to football, 
lacrosse, etc. It is well printed on toned paper, and 
its general appearance is very much in its favor. The 
accounts given of outdoor and indoor amusements and 
sports are written in a lively, entertaining style. An 
article by “ Mac,” “ With the Montreal Hounds,” is 
bright and sparkling. It makes one wish to mount 
and ride over hill and dale, to the sound of the hunt- 
ing horn. 



College fcfews. 



Manitoba College, founded in 1871, has college 
property to the value $70,000, a teaching stafT of ten, 
and the number of students last year was ninety. 

Boating circles at Yale College are discussing the 
question of a race between the Yale and Oxford 
(Eng.) crews on the Thames. They are however 
awaiting the backing of the Alumni before sending 
the challenge. 

A new laboratory is in course of erection at Yale 
College, and will be completed about the 1st Decem- 
ber. It is built of brown stone, with a handsome 
tower, and is to cost $75,000. It will be one of the 
finest edifices in the institution. 

The undergraduates of Trinity University held 
their annual dinner on the evening of the 28th Oc- 
tober, in their Convocation Hall. There is one young 
lady in attendance on the lectures, for the first time 
in the history of the University, but she did not make 
her debut at the dinner. 



The students of the various colleges in Toronto are 
now united in a hearty fellow-feeling of studentship. 
The ’Varsity, Trinity, Knox, Osgoode, Wycliffe, Mc- 
Master, Upper Canada, St. Michael’s, the Collegiate, 
the Normal, the College of Pharmacy, the Vets, and 
Meds. are all included. Inter-seminary alliance and 
inter-collegiate debates are indicative of this spirit. 

The students in Prof. McCurdy’s Hebrew class at 
Toronto University had some fun last week. The 
Professor was trying to make the students make a 
peculiar pronunciation, which sounded like “ Oras.” 
“You see,” said the Professor, “it is done in this 
way ” (making the sound) so that the sound does not 
pass beyond the moustache.” Now, as a matter of 
fact, very few of the class had moustaches, and the 
first one who was called on to tackle the “ Ora 3 ” had 
none whatever, and pronounced it distinctly “ Oh, 
rats.” 

Rutger’s College, New Brunswick, N.J., has been 
the scene of several contests lately between the Sopho- 
mores and Freshmen, over the class flag. On one oc- 
casion the “ Freshies ” hoisted it, and fastened it to a 
telegraph wire, supposing that the Sophs, would not 
climb, but “ Jimmy,” the college janitor, was induced 
to mount the pole and cut the wire. The flag then 
fell among the howling mob, and, in the mel^e, several 
noses were battered and clothes torn. The President 
of the college then interfered and quelled the disturb- 
ance. The flag has been set up and torn down three 
times. 



Between the Lectures. 



“ Certain mills grind slowly, but they grind exceed- 
ing small.” 

Surgeon (to students at hospital, after a heroic 
operation): “Well, gentlemen, I have taken off the 
wrong leg ; the laugh’s on me ! ” 

Since the “ option” system came into vogue, at 
many American colleges students are restricting them- 
selves to arithmetic and base- ball. 

The Principal has allowed the ladies to assume the 
students’ gown at lectures \ but he has kicked strongly, 
and, we think, justly, against their wearing plug hats 
and cigarettes in the streets. 

Some freshman sends us an item concerning what 
he calls the orientation of the crowd leaving the 
Academy during the Langtry season. We don’t 
understand exactly what he means, but we let it "o 
at that. ° 

A Puzzler. — Miss Lilly was teaching Master 
Charley manners. 

“ When you do anything that annoys any one you 
must say, ‘ I beg your pardon.’ ” 

“Yes,” interrupted Master Charley, “ that’s all very 
well, but what do you say when people are rude to 
you ? ” 

“ I don’t know,” replied Miss Lilly, embarrassed. 

“ Oh, I know ! ” said her young pupil triumphantly. 
“ You say, ‘ Go to thunder !’ ” 



1887.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



37 



At the Grand Seminary of Quebec two very strin- 
gent rules are in force — one is against the use of 
tobacco, and the other obliges the Latin tongue to be 
used on all occasions. One morning as the Superior 
came from his room, he noticed a new student moving 
his lower jaw in a manner strongly suggestive of the 
masticatory use of the forbidden weed. Angrily con- 
fronting the young man, the Superior demanded — 
“ Domine, quid est hoc 1 ” whereupon the unabashed 
student replied — “ Domine, hoc est quid ! ” and fled, 
leaving the Superior so surprised that he endeavored 
to walk through the wall to get into the fresh air. 



A DOTING MAMMA. 

Rather a good story is told of one of the students 
who graduated a few years since. It appears that 

Mr. , who lived some distance from the city, 

had spent considerable time on a very elaborate set of 
cribs, in preparation for a certain difficult examination. 
On the eventful morning he unfortunately left them 
at home The examination had scarcely commenced 
when his fond mother walked into the room, having 
taken the next train down, with the cribs, and handed 
them to the professor, saying : — “ Will you kindly give 
these to my son ; I know they are important, as he 
said he could not pass without them.” Her son’s 
feelings can be better imagined than described. — Col- 
umbia College Spectator. 



£orrespon6ence. 



Editors University Gazette : — 

Dear Sirs, — In your issue of the 19th ult. appeared 
an editorial on the Law Faculty, which calls, perhaps, 
for a brief comment. While fully sustaining your 
position in reference to class-rooms, whose only re- 
deeming feature is their central situation, and agree- 
ing with you that the Law School of McGill compares 
very favorably with the others of this Province, we 
go still further, and assert that in the training afforded 
it is unsurpassed, if equalled, by any other in Canada. 

But we must take exception to your criticism of 
the method in which the professors — all of whom 
have a recognized professional standing in the Pro- 
vince, some of them a reputation extending beyond 
Canada — carry on their class work. 

The training we receive amply fulfils its primary 
objects, viz., a broad and comprehensive survey of 
those great principles of law which underlie every 
system of jurisprudence, and the mapping out of 
the one in force in this Province, leaving to the 
student himself the task of filling in the details. 

That the severe criticisms of the Gazette, two or 
three years ago, have not been barren of result is 
true ; it is equally true that the chief result has been 
to place in the hands of powerful enemies a weapon 
of which they were not slow to avail themselves, in 
attempting, not unsuccessfully, to legislate our Faculty 
out of existence. 

If such be the fruits of the agitation for reform, 
which our outside friends have undertaken of their 



own accord, is it surprising that, as self-preservation 
still continues to be Nature’s first law, we cry — “ Save 
us from our friends ! ” 

3rd Year Student. 



THE LAW FACULTY. 

Editors University Gazette : — 

Sirs, — I am surprised and disappointed that you 
should have inferred from my letter, any insinuations 
reflecting upon the actions of our professors at the 
examinations, and emphatically repudiate the re- 
motest intention of insinuating that the standing of 
students would be affected by criticism, however un- 
just to, or severe upon, their teachers. My reference 
clearly was to reformers — students — who agitate, or 
rather did agitate, for reforms which could not come 
into effect until they were beyond the consequences 
of the execution of their reforms. Trusting that you 
will find space for this correction, 

I am, 

Yours, etc., 

Law Student. 



A FILIAL REBUKE. 

Editors of the University Gazette : — 

Dear Sirs, — There is, in a certain Faculty of this 
University, a professor who, not content with discuss- 
ing subjects within the scope of his chair and from a 
point of view authorized thereby, has always, but 
lately more particularly, devoted a large portion of 
the students’ valuable time to the elucidation of a 
great variety of topics — the Holy Scriptures, Moral 
Philosophy, Literature, Anthropology, Etiquette and 
Political Economy among others ; and these from a 
social, moral, religious, medical, legal and, above all, 
personal stand point. This discussion of matters 
foreign to the professor’s subject has of late become 
such a nuisance that I have determined to ventilate it 
through the columns of your journal. I may remark 
that I and my fellow-students are fairly well case- 
hardened in whatever virtues or vices we possess, 
consequently the moral lessons of our worthy profes- 
sor amuse some and disgust others ; while his deduc- 
tions from the facts of ancient history come too late 
to men whose school education is finished, defective 
though it may have been. 

Most professors are content to call the roll at odd 
intervals to ascertain if their students are regular in 
their attendance, and to report unruly men to the 
Faculty. Not so the professor in question. He wished 
to establish a sort of High School monitorial system 
to regulate attendance, and has threatened to refuse 
“ certifies ” to a class of men he designates as the 
“ book-slamming, feet-stamping, lip-smacking coterie.” 
Passing over these Carlylean epithets, we question his 
right to do anything of the sort. 

Now, gentlemen, we have occasionally heard this 
same professor deliver a coherent and well-ordered 
lecture, lasting a full hour, to a most attentive class, 
and we venture to conjecture that if the consideration 



38 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1887. 



of foreign topics was dropped, and if fewer tears were 
shed over delinquent students and more radical 
measures adopted, matters would run satisfactorily to 
both professor and students. 

With best wishes for your success, I remain 

Yours sincerely, 

’90 & ’91. 



TUTORING. 



MR. W. B. T. MACAULAY, 

EDINBURGH UNIVERSITY AND HIGH SCHOOL, MONTREAL, 
:o: 

Students fitted for Matriculation into all Faculties of the 
University and for other Examinations. 

2239 ST. CATHERINE ST. 



SPARHAM ROOFING CEMENT. 

The only Cement that has stood the test for the past fourteen 
years. All others have proved failures. 

CAMPBELL & CO., 

Sole -A-g*e:n.ts for Montreal sirra. T7"lclrrlt3r- 

OFFICE, 309 ST. JAMES STREET. 



D. NIGHTINGALE, 

Manufacturer and Dealer in 

POOL AND BILLIARD TABLES, 

IVORY AND COMPOSITION BALLS, 

Tips, Chalk, Plain and Fancy Cues, Billiard Cloths, &c. 

Tables Altered, Repaired, Cut Down, &c. 

1742 Notre Dame Street. MONTREAL. 

Special to the Doctors and S tudents ! 

THE UP-TOWN GENTS’ FINE FURNISHERS. 

Collars and Cuffs, Shirts and Drawers, 
White Shirts mode to order. 

SPECIAL TERMS TO TH ill STUDENTS. 

A. P. GRAHAM & CO., 

2230 St. Catherine Street, - Opposite Queen’s Hall. 




1 YQUR ( . 

Boots and Shoes, 

Rubbers, Overshoes and Moccasins 

— AT — 

A. M. EEATHERSTON’S 

SHOE STORES. 

UP TOWN : QUEEN’S HALL BLOCK, 

1331 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 



DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 



w 

* * rn 


^ M. 

tv * * 


Notman & Son, 

**************** 


■1 


m 

* * 


otc 

' * * * 


>graphers 

************* 



Jfeuj Beale of Trices this year 
for BiucLenis. 

17 BLEURY STREET. 



The Mutual Life Insurance Co. 

OIF 1 NEW YOBK 

ISSUES EVERY DESIRABLE FORM OF POLICY. 

Assets nearly ------ $109,000,000 

Surplus over ------- 13,000.000 

The MUTUAL of New York is the largest LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY in the world, with the best record. 

AGENTS WANTED IN UNREPRESENTED DISTRICTS. 

Students can improve their circumstances considerably by acting as Agents in tbeir own Localities daring Vacation. 

j FAYETTE BROWN, Manager . 

1762 NOTRE DAME STREET, 



MONTREAL 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



E. & C. GURNEY & CO., 



385 <2z 33 'Z St. P^ul Street, 



— ^-Wholesale Manufacturers*— 



STOVES, 

GRATES, 

RANGES, 

SCALES. 



CURNEY’S 



C emted Hot Whter Heaters 



Cast Bundy Radiators. 




Hot Air Fubhaces 

FOR 

Coal or Wood. 



ALL GOODS GUARANTEED, 



Circulars on Application. 



385 & 387 

St. Paul Street, 

MONTREAL. 



Established 1839. 

PSIZEUSTIR^ 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST, 

144 ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STREET, 

Montreal. 

The Dispensing of Physicians’ Prescriptions a Specialty. 
Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers sup- 
plied with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 

BI CYCLES Tl 

Lawn Tennis Sets, Foot- 
Balls, Boxing Gloves, 

Fencing Foils, 

Masks, Ac. 

Also Prizes of all Descriptions. 

Wedding, Christmas and Birthday Presents, Fancy 
Goods, Electro -Elate, &c . 

WATeon :PE2ivrarar, 

53 ST. SULPICE STREET. 



Doctors’ and Students’ Headquarters 

— FOR — 

rssra satfasfa cnrad&iM, 

Soiller & Co.’s (London, E.) Du Khedive Extra Fine 
v CIGARETTES. 

Lowe & Co.’s THOMPSON PIPES and others. 

T aree st and most Complete Stock of CANES in the City. VIRGINIA 
and TURKISH TOBACCOS. 

E, £k- 

2235 St. Catherine Street, Queen’s Block. 





-Me PHOTOGRAPHY 

For CABINET PHOTOS., go to 

SUMMERHAYES So WALFORD’S. 

For GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES So WALFORL’S. 

For COMPOSITION OF GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES So WALFORD’S. 

For all kinds of PHOTOGRAPHY, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD’S, 

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleury Street 

SURGICALINSTRUMENTS 
~and~ C HEMICAL A PPARATUS. 

§ tfull $todk doi^tkijtly oi\ Imported 

f)iiedt from ti\e lading ^ki\tifridttfrefd 
of tl\e Wofld. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. 

LYMAN, SONS & CO., 

384 ST. PAUL STREET. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 




PURE CANDY. 

254 St. James Street, and 15 St. Lawrence Main Street, MONTREAL' 
and 73 Sparks Street, OTTAWA. 



THE GEWUIPfK 

COOK’S P B I E IT D 
BAKING POWDER 

Is the BEST VALUE in the market, is made from 
the PUREST INGREDIENTS, gives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to the user, and should he pre- 
ferred by all careful housekeepers. Retailed 
everywhere. 



TELEPHONE No. 580. 




(LIMITED.) 



21, 2U & 23 St Antoine Street, MONTREAL. 

T. H. LOVE, Managing Director. 

Our Laundry having been Refitted with the Latest and Most Im- 
proved Machinery, we are now prepared to offer special inducements to 

Families, Hotels, Steamships and Public Institutions, 

for the Washing and Finishing of Goods. Particular attention given to the 
Washing and Dressing of Goods for Shirt and Collar Manufacturers. 
Goods damaged by Water Cleaned and Re-finished to look equal to new. 
Lace and other Fine Work carefully Cleaned and Finished. No Chem- 
icals Used and Goods less roughly handled than by the ordinary hand 
work. Special Contracts made, and Tenders for work furnished on 
application. 

GOODS CALLED FOR AND DELIVERED FREE OF CHARGE. 



C. ASHFORD’S 
CHEAP BOOK . STATIONERY, 

AND 

FANCY GOODS SHOP, 

MEDICAL. BOOKS, 

Students’ Note Books, Dissecting Cases and Scalpels 

(BY WEISS * SON,) 

CHEAF FOR CASH. 

Books procured to order from England & the United States 

816 AND 818 DORCHESTER ST., 



Corner 

McGill 

and 

Notre Dame 



Streets. 




Corner 

McGill 

and 

Notre Dame 

Streets. 



BaABQVAStVraS Ilf TEES QVS'ST 



FOR- 



Overcoats, Suits, and Gents’ Underwear 



LARGEST STOCK IN CANADA TO SELECT FROM. 



SuitSatlOvercoats Made to Order, American Styles. 

AST SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS.“©a 



