I 



jVo# 4* 

McGILL 

UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 

Wednesday, November 25 , 1885 . 

L 





CONTENTS : 






PiGE. 




# 

PAGE. 


Editorials - 


3-4 


Sporting 


- 11-12 


Poetry, ... 


4 


Personals 


12 


Contributions - 


5-6 


College World 


- 12-13 


Every Fortnight 


7-8 


Between the Lectures 


13-14 


McGill News - 


1 

1 

00 

1 

CO 


Correspondence 


14 


Societies - 


9-11 


Advertisements 


2, 14, 15, 16 



MONTREAL : 

PRINTED BY THE BURLAND LITHOGRAPHIC COMPANY. 



1885 . 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields. McCoriill, Guerin & Greenshielils, 

ADVOCATES, 

Jtarmisrs, JOtorneijs, jloHritors, fct*, 

Chambers : Exchange Bank Building, 

1724 NOTRE DAME STREET, 

MONTREAIi. 

J. N. Greenshields. J. C. McCorkill. Edmond Guerin. R. A. E. Greenshields. 



Robertson, Ritchie, Fleet k Falconer, 

ADVOCATES, 

151 St- Taaan.es Street, 

aEQSTT-REAE*- 



ATWATER & CROSS, 

^Svocate^, |jarri&er$, fjommi^ioner^ $c., 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 ST. JAMES STREET, 

MONTREAL. 



MACMASTER, HUTCHINSON & WEIR, 

ADVOCATES, 

garristers, Jwlkitcrrs, &t. f 

175 ST. JAMES STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

DONALD MACMASTER, Q.C. R. S. WEIR, B.C.L. 

M. HUTCHINSON, B.C.L. F. S. McLENNAN, B.C.L 

A. PERIAPJ), 

Law Bookseller, Publisher. Importer 

And Legal Stationer, 

23 ST. JAMES STREET, 

(near the court house,) 

3 Vr 03 STTI 2 ,E!^.Xj. 




I. B. DUROCHER, Proprietor. 

Jacques Cartier Square, opp, Court House & City Hall, 



MONTREAL. 

THE ABOVE HOTEL is the BEST IN THE CITY for McGILL COLLEGE DINNEBS. 



HEADQUARTERS 



—FOR— 




DRYSDALE’S 



232 ST. vTA-IMIIES ST. 



America l works, kooks user ijv art course , 

SC I E JVC E TEXT ROOKS , 

THE VARIOUS THEOLOGICAL ROOKS . 

Full assortment in stock & supplied at Root Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books, &c., <Stc., 
-^i-BEST *V\A_X jTJE I IN* TOWBT-i-^ 

S tylo graphic Pens , Anti- Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supjolies a Specialty . 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

232 St. Tamos Street, 

ALSO 

Branch Store : 1423 St. Catherine St, 

BUY LTOTTIR, 

Boots and Shoes, 

RUBBERS, OVERSHOES & MOCCASINS 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

Shoe Stores. 

UP TOWN : QUEEN'S HALL BLOCK, 

1331 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 

JOHN HENDERSON & CO., 

Hatters Furriers, 

1677 Jfoire Tlartis Si. 



FUB SPATS, CAPS and GAUNTLETS, 

Extra Quality Goods at Lowest Cash Prices. 

Tlie “ McGILL ” Ribbon for Sale. 




UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Vol. IX.] McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, NOVEMBER 25th, 1885. [No. 4. 




DIRECTORS. 

Jeffrey H. Burland, B. Ap. Sc., F.C.S., President . 
Edgar De F. Holden, Vice-President. 

Geo. C. Wright, B.A., Sec.-Treas. 

COMMITTEE. 

Geo. C. Stephen, 

W. A. Carlyle, Science ’87. 

Fred. W. Hibbard, Arts '86. 

E. P. Williams, Med. ’87. 

EDITORS. 

A. H. Urquhart Colquhoun, B.A., Editor-in- Chief. 
J. Balph Murray, B.A., Law ’86. 

Baleigh J. Elliot, Law '86. 

Arthur Weir, Science ’86. 

Ed. Evans, Med. ’87. 

C. Percy Brown, Science ’86. 

W. Inglis Bradley, B.A. 

Alfred P. Murray, Arts ’87. 

The University Gazette will be published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which 
rule no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

All communications may be addressed to the Editors, P. 0. 
Box 1290. 



notice. 



Subscribers to the Gazette who do not receive 
their papers regularly will please notify the Sec.- 
Treas., as this is the only method of having the un- 
avoidable mistakes and necessary imperfections of the 
mailing system rectified. 



E&itorials. 



UNIVERSITY EXAMINERS. 

The appointment of our Lecturer in Chemistry in 
the Faculty of Medicine, Dr. B. F. Buttan, as ex- 
aminer in Toronto University, suggests the question 
whether it would not be well for our own University to 
adopt the plan of having outside examiners appointed 
for the Annual University examinations, instead of the 
present method of having these examinations conduct- 
ed wholly by our own professors. The reasons why 
such a change should be made are very weighty and 



very apparent. In the first place, it would be an ad- 
vantage to the professors themselves. 

They would no doubt be very happy to be relieved 
of a very large amount of extremely tedious work. A 
selfish motive, we admit, but are we not but men ! 
Again, it would undoubtedly be more satisfactory to 
them if some gentlemen independent of the college 
were associated with them in the work of finding out 
if the students to whom they have been lecturing have 
attained a fair knowledge of the subject which they 
are supposed to know. To us, certainly, the gratifica- 
tion would be greater if some other competent person 
gave it as his judgment that our class had done very 
well, than if we had to declare the fact ourselves. 

In the second place, it would be more satisfactory to 
the students. There would not then be a shadow of 
a ground for any complaints of favouritism or pre- 
judice. We do not mean to insinuate that there ever 
is, under the present system, a conscious act of favouri- 
tism on the part of the professors, but we know for a 
positive fact that injustice is sometimes done. This 
would be much less likely to occur if some examiners 
were appointed from other colleges, or from amongst the 
eminent men of the country, not connected with any 
college, not necessarily to supplant our own professors, 
but to help them. 

But the weightiest argument is that this plan would 
largely tend to do away with that terrible evil of cram- 
ming, which is the great drawback to all competitive 
examinations. When students are examined solely 
from the professor’s own lectures, cramming is sure to 
take place. Indeed, we have been told that in the case 
of one at least of our professors, the exact questions to 
be given can be foretold with comparative accuracy. 
Some attempt at remedying this state of affairs ought 
surely to be made, and no remedy, we opine, would be 
more potent than the one under consideration. 

The only objection which can reasonably be urged 
is the old one of expense. To that plea we have no 
answer. 



KEEP UP THE CUSTOMS. 

The annual faculty dinner is not a custom more 
honored in the breach than in the observance,” neither 
is a valedictory ; yet both of these time-honored events 
were omitted by the graduating class, in law, last year. 

It is late in the day to argue the benefits arising 



4 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1885. 



from faculty dinners. To those who reap some of the 
greatest advantages of a college course, viz., the oppor- 
tunity it gives for gaining a knowledge of the modes 
of thought of others, and the influences actuating them 
as well as for the cultivation of those true sentiments 
upon which all noble actions depend, these institu- 
tions are invaluable. The custom of having a vale- 
dictory address is founded in the natural assumption, 
that men who have laboured together for several years 
with the same ebject in view, must find themselves so 
drawn towards each other and towards the school in 
whose classes they have fitted themselves for the 
duties of life, that they cannot separate without some 
formal expression of farewell to each other and to it. 

Lawyers, as a class, are in no danger of becoming 
unduly sentimental. There is even a danger of the 
other extreme. Can it be that the intensely practical 
and matter-of-fact nature of their studies, even before 
they have left the college halls, tends to dampen the 
generous sentiment of youth ? 

We would impress upon the graduating class of ’86 
their duties with respect to these two things, and would 
urge them to take steps, early in the session, to secure 
both a valedictorian and a dinner. 



terial aid, and instead of standing idly on the campus 
in the afternoons or lying cuddled up in bed in the 
mornings, must don the jersey and push with the team 
shoulder to shoulder. 

One more suggestion. In picking a new man for a 
team, if the choice lie evenly between, for example, a 
freshman and a senior, we advise, nay, almost insist, 
that the freshman be chosen, for only by such a 
method of choosing can the great weakener of a col- 
lege team, the annual loss of several of its members 
by graduation, be best opposed. 



We are fortunate in being able to be the first to 
publish a series of translations of some of Horace’s 
odes, by one of the ablest classical scholars in Canada. 
They are written for the Gazette, and even those who 
only faintly remember their Horace will appreciate 
the closeness of the translation, combined with the 
beauty of the English versification, while those fresh 
from the text will .doubly enjoy Mr. Murray’s happy 
efforts. 

Poetry. 



THE INTER-UNIVERSITY MATCH. 

The match of the season has been played and lost 
Our men have nevertheless returned with honor, for 
all who saw the match will testify that if pluck and 
determination never to give in could have won suc- 
cess, McGill had not come away empty from Toronto. 

They deserve warm praise for the doggedness with 
which they have fought for our honor this year, yet 
“ nothing succeeds like success,” and it will be well to 
find the cause of their defeat and seek to remove it. 
The first and most important reason for their defeat is 
that our men lack team play. Individually, they are 
well trained, but they do not pass the ball enough and 
rarely follow up one another. In the second place, 
the team contains too many light men. Between light 
men and heavy whose ability is the same, as it often 
is, there cannot be a moment’s hesitation as to choice 
These are the chief reasons for our defeat, and the 
cause of such a state of things lies, we think, in the 
supineness of the majority of our students. How can 
there be a team practice when the team has to be 
divided that it may have a practice at all ? How can 
a strong, heavy team be chosen when the captain is 
handicapped by a lack of men from whom to choose ? 

If McGill men wish to see their team as strong as it 
has been in former years when it was a formidable 
opponent to Harvard at its best, [they must give ma- 



HOILE HORATIANJE. 
book i : ode hi. 

Lydia, by all the Gods above. 

Why haste to ruin Sybaris by love? 

Why the hot Campus doth he shun. 

He, once so reckless of the dust and sun ? 

Why now no longer doth he ride 
On sharp-curbed charger by his comrades’ side? 

Why dreads he Tiber’s yellow flood, 

And athlete’s oil, as though ’twere viper’s blood? 

Why doth he bare no more of late. 

His arms discoloured by their armour’s weight. 

He, who was formerly renowned 
bor dart and discus hurled beyond the bound ? 

He hides, like sea-born Thetes’ son, 

(.bo runs the tale) ere hapless Troy was won, 

Who sought, in woman’s robes concealed. 
To scape the carnage of the Lycian field. 

book ii.: ODE VIII. 

Baring, if thy perjured truth 

Had marred the beauty of one nail, 

Or specked with black one pearly tooth, 

I might believe thy tale : 



mu iiiinu secure, 

, . i , T,10 , u 1 gh aUfhy loving vows are lies : 

btill dost thou blaze, the cynosure 
Of youth’s adoring eyes. 

And still thy radiance grows more fair, 

. , ^ , . When by the stars that nightly bum. 

And Gods immortal thou dost swear, 

And by thy mother’s urn. 

E'en Venus and the Graces own 

With laughter thy perfidious arts, 

And Lupid, while on bloody stone 

He whets his burning darts. 

Each stripling will become thy slave, 
ur'i.u c iresh victims throng, and those who swore 
With frequent threats thy wrath to brave 
Still haunt thy fatal door. 

Each mother dreads thee for her boy ; 

t not * Enc ^. mi ser old ; each hapless bride, 

Lest thy too subtle spells decoy 

Her bridegroom from her side. 

Geo. Murray. 



1885 .] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



5 



Contributions. 



SHOULD WE LEARN FRENCH 1 

Should we, the English speaking Canadians resident 
in Quebec, learn to speak French ? This question is to- 
day more pertinent than for years back. It is one we 
should all ask ourselves at once, and our answer should 
be determined, not so much by the abstract value of the 
language, for on this ground there is not more reason 
for mastering French than German, nor yet because of 
the facilities which a knowledge of French is supposed 
to afford to our commerce, for English must from the 
nature of things on this Continent be the language of 
commerce, but simply because it is essential to political 
harmony. 

The Saxon nature is wondrously complacent. 
Wherever we find the Englishman, we find a man 
satisfied that he is of superior race to the people 
around him. Even when he has tact enough to con- 
ceal this feeling in ordinary circumstances, he will 
confess it in confidence to his fellow. Perhaps in no 
country in the world is this feeling so utterly un- 
founded, or has it been productive of such baneful re- 
sults as in Canada. When the English first came here 
there was a natural wish on the part of the conquered 
people to establish kindly relations with their con- 
querors. Their feelings against France were very 
bitter. She had deserted the colony in its need and 
duiing the negotiations preliminary to the Peace of 
Paris had entirely overlooked the devotion of her 
subjects across the Atlantic. Thus wounded, the 
people of Canada responded eagerly to the advances 
made them. For the English too were conciliatory. 
In the field they had experienced the bravery and ad- 
mired the generosity of those who now made friendly 
overtures. Thus it was that after the conquest there 
was every probability that the two races would amal- 
gamate into one people. Through reports of this state 
of things, the English government were led to make 
large concessions to their new subjects, who now be- 
came bound to their conquerors by the additional tie 
of gratitude. How well disposed the Canadians were 
to England was proved in the revolutionary war, and 
later in the contest of 1812-14. But as time went on, 
floods of Englishman poured into the country, usurp- 
ing the places of honor and holding themselves aloof 
from their French fellow-colonists. Then gradually 
there grew up a feeling of race hatred, which burst 
into flame in 1837-38. Appeased by the concessions 
which followed, their demagogue leaders frightened 
into silence, the French rested, and once more their 
was a possibility of the land being possessed by a 
united people. 

But the English would not, will not, have it so. 
They still continued to be exclusive, still looked upon 
the French as inferiors. And following the bent of 
their genius, they prospered exceedingly. The French 
are proud and sensitive, quick to resent and reciprocate 
the supercilious feeling of the English. Moreover to 
this dislike has been added the envious feeling of the 
poor towards the rich — class hatred to race hatred. 
For^ many years the fire has been smouldering, and 



now it is being deliberately fanned into flame. 
Politicians are making capital out of it, and journalists 
are looking to it for their bread. Back in the country 
parishes, speeches are being made in which the Eng- 
lish are described as oppressors of the people, piling 
up fortunes out of the latter’s labor. In this city, in 
Quebec, and in each of the smaller towns there are 
published daily the bitterest attacks, perfect tempests 
of scornful denunciation, against the English. Even 
among cultured French-Canadians this feeling prevails. 
There are dreams of a French republic in America, 
longing looks towards France, an eagerness for closer 
relations with the country of their ancestors. 

That such a state of things should exist, now, after 
a hundred years from trie time when French and Eng- 
lish settled in harmony side by side, is an historical 
anomaly. To what circumstances, or to what men, 
must we look for the special causes'? The manner in 
which the country was settled, large territory, a thin 
population, a people agricultural in habit and easily 
contented, few manufactures, no mining industries, 
means of communication few, a free country, light 
taxation, no educational stimulus— all have had some 
influence in preserving the language and customs of 
the French people in Canada. But now most of these 
circumstances are altered. Those who know the 
people must recognise the change which the railways 
intersecting the province, the discovery of various 
minerals, the development of manufactures, are bring 
ing about. The bustle of the outside world has pene- 
trated Arcadia. Naturally we look for the first sign 
in the main pursuit of the people, and we find them 
improving their system of agriculture, going more ex- 
tensively into stock-raising and dairying. And they 
are restless, even moving off to the States sometimes, 
but especially asking more education for their children. 

The material circumstances of the people are chang- 
ing, but we look in vain for any alteration in their feel- 
ing towards us, the English. Their dislike for us 
appears to be gaining in strength, and there is more 
danger from it now that they are beginning to recognise 
the possibility of their being able to stand alone, to 
produce all they require without the aid of English- 
men’s capital, and Englishmen’s inventive, and execu- 
tive ability. Unless something is done to conciliate 
the French, there will be trouble. And the trouble 
may rise to the magnitude of civil war. With the 
continent at our backs we may not be afraid of the 
result, but it is the part of wisdom to avoid the possi- 
bility of the wholesale destruction of lives and pro- 
perty which a civil war would involve. Even if no 
such calamity is to be expected, should not something 
be done to help on the amalgamation of the races on 
this continent? 

There is one simple means of conciliation which, as 
a body, the English people of this province have per- 
sistently neglected. Although French is as much the 
official language of this country as English, we have 
doggedly refused to learn it. In our High Schools, it 
is true, the pupils devote two or three hours a week to 
what is called “ studying French.” They also give six 
hours a week to Latin and six to Greek. When they 
get through, they are able to translate easy passages 
from Greek, Latin and French authors — with the help 



6 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1885 . 



of a dictionary. This result is satisfactory enough as 
regards the classics, but is by no means gratifying with 
respect to French. What is wanted is a system of 
instruction, beginning in the primar} r classes, which 
will end in enabling all the boys and girls to speak 
and write French when they leave the common schools. 
Such a result is not unattainable, as all teachers know, 
who have thrown aside the idiotic system of teaching 
languages which generally prevails, and who begin 
naturally by giving their scholars a vocabulary first and 
the grammar afterwards. 

There is no evidence we can give of a desire to live 
on friendly terms with our French compatriots, that 
will be so convincing as making the study of French 
compulsory in our schools, and throughout the whole 
school course. Outside of this there are the many 
practical advantages to be gained from a thorough 
knowledge of the French language, which are too well 
known to need recital here. As a means of conciliation 
alone, the measure proposed is worthy of adoption. 
Besides it will involve making the study of English 
compulsory in the French public schools. A word to 
the wise is sufficient. 

W. H. Turner. 

Montreal, November 6th, 1885. 



PROTECTION TO CIVIL ENGINEERING IN 
CANADA. 

It will be noticed that, of late years, the professions 
of medicine and law are being greatly hedged about. 
There is legal protection for them. University train- 
ing in the latter is advisable ; in the former, I under- 
stand, peremptory. And the examinations for en- 
trance to either profession are searching, strict, sweep- 
ing, and command a good knowledge of the technical 
and practical parts of the calling. 

What of civil engineering ? Do even the more in- 
telligent portions of the masses know anything about- 
its professional status ? I think not. It is a hard- 
working, noble, responsible function of society, though 
usually unobtrusive. It is absolutely at the mercy of 
every impostor, unprotected. 

If a young man has had special training in civil 
engineering at McGill or Toronto, he has a great start 
in the race for position, undoubtedly. But is that all 
he should have for his own sake and for that of the 
public, who travel over the roads and waterways of the 
country] For he has to work for a few years at the 
start against men whose ambition, ability or education 
alone would point to nothing higher, who, as mere 
machines, handle the instruments of the field and 
office. They have been taught to do that and are con- 
tent ; forced to be content through lack of knowledge, 
willing to be content through lack of ambition. It is 
a genteel profession, therefore they would rather stay 
in it than rise higher in a humbler calling. That state 
of affairs would be bad enough ; but it might not be 
dangerous to human life. But is that all ? What if 
one of these automatons is son of the powerful and 

influential ? or son of a friend of the member 

for ? Is he not apt to be foisted upon some com- 

pany and either builds dangerously weak works or 



ones heavy enough to be a burden to themselves ? 

« Honi soit qui ” How will such men do even plain 

duty as well as the young man who is using his pre- 
sent position to fit him for higher ones? Will there 
be the same eager intelligence displayed ? Would not 
examination for entrance to the profession check this 
evil of favouritism ? 

The travelling public, the masses, are practically 
interested. It may be life or death to many whether 
such a bridge, or viaduct, or trestle, or even road-bed 
is properly constructed, or stupidly built. U 

an end span of a wooden trestle be corbelled the same 
as internal spans, then this end span is either weaker 
than safety warrants or else the others have unneces- 
sary and burdensome material. Who started the prac- 
tice ? 1 don’t know, but dozens are being so built in 

Canada. 

Nobody could think of wishing to debar from fur- 
ther practice those men whose experience and sound 
common sense have placed them in the first rank. 
They have succeeded in spite of defect and are orna- 
ments to the profession. But for future generations 
of civil engineers something should be done and in 
our day, too. It is not to the country’s interest to let 
the present state of affairs continue. For experience 
may just as easily be gained after education as without 
it. “ Examination for entrance to the profession that 
carries our safety in the palm of its hand,” should be 
a motto of the travelling public. 

Cecil B. Smith, B.A.S. 



ANNE DANTE. 

Anne Dante was a quiet maid. 

Whose ways were rather slow ; 

And village gossips laughed and said 
She loved young Al Legro. 

Now Al he was a lively chap 

And went it with a rush 

And though a minor he may! ap. 

Was full of vim and push. 

Old Major Scale he loved her, too 
His /fat# brought handsome rents 
Not sharp was he enough to woo 
A natural consequence. 

Thought he “ ’Twont harm any to try 
Perhaps I’ll count a point ; 

A thorough base-ball player I 
Will knock them out of joint.” 

Excitement soon affected Anne, 

A staff she had to use ; 

She thought she’d die a tonic then 
She took to cure the blues. 



Now Al in treble hid his face 
’Twas alto’d thin and pale ; 

His even tenor changed its base , 
He’s living on fine ale. 



“ Yes, I used to be a confirmed beer-drinker, but, 
thanks to the efforts of kind friends, I was able to 
throw off the awful habit,” said the speaker at a Ken- 
tucky temperance meeting. “ Don’t you kind o’ han- 
ker after it now ?” asked a dyspeptic in the crowd. 
“ ^so, sir, not a cent’s worth.” “ How did you stop ]” 
“ J us t took a little whiskey now and then until the 
taste for beer was wholly eradicated. It was a glorious 
triumph, gentlemen.” 



1885.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



7 



THE MATCH.* 

“Does he love me ? Does he not ?” 

Soft she breathes her lover’s name. 

Of whom, Nellie, have you sought 
Answer from that feeble flame ? 

Nellie shakes her head and smiles. 

Cunning witch, she will not tell. 

Miss, in spite of all your wiles. 

Who he is I know full well. 

Like a chiselled grace she stands, 

Eager eyes upon the light ; 

And she shades it with her hands 
Till it strengthens and grows bright. 

It has brightened up at last. 

Turn it, Nellie. There ’t is done. 

See l it climbs its ladder fast 
Till the very top is won. 

With her features all aglow, 

“ Why, he loves me true 1” she cried. 

Had it failed to tell you so, 

Nellie, dear, the match had lied. 

Attie. 



Euery Fortnight. 



I was told by a person who was there that the fol- 
lowing motion was made the other evening at the 
University Literary Society : “ That inasmuch as the 
accumulation of capital is not one of the objects of the 
Society the surplus announced by the Treasurer as re- 
maining in his hands after the payment of all ex- 
penses be handed over to him in recognition of the 
able way in which he has filled the office, and in com- 
memoration of the unusual event of the Society’s be- 
ing out of debt.” This was really generous, and I 
have no doubt that if the motion had been allowed to 
have been put to the meeting it would have been un- 
animously carried. But it is very likely that the 
Treasurer would have been too generous to accept the 
bonus. The amount of the surplus was one cent. 

* * 

* 

The same witty gentleman who made this motion 
was telling the other day of a debate in which he took 
part, where the question whether war or intemper- 
ance produced the greatest ravages was being discussed. 
After he had drawn some very dreadful pictures of the 
effects of war and had expatiated at length upon its 
cruelty, inhumanity and so on, his opponent got up 
and said, “ I admit all that my learned friend has said, 
but I should like to know when war ever made a man 
hug a lamp post and imagine it his dearest friend.” 
This was a crushing argument, and the audience, like 
the Privy Council in a late case, did not think it neces- 
sard to hear any more. 

* * 

* 

A rather good story comes from Toronto. You may 
have noticed that nine gentlemen were recently ad- 



• It cannot be an old custom, though it is certainly a general one, 
the reading of a person’s sentiments by the conduct of a burning 
match. For those uninitiated into this way of wheedling an answer 
from Fate, and for the explanation of the following lines, I will 
briefly say that the operation consists in lighting a match, mention- 
ing the name of the person whose faithfulness is to be tested, and 
then, by turning the match upside down, endeavoring to have the 
wood entirely burnt without the charred mass breaking. Should the 
column givelway at any time before the flame goes out, you may “ con- 
sider yourself disliked,” but if it remains intact you may reason ac- 
cordingly. 



mitted to the Ontario Bar without an examination on 
account of their having been on active service in the 
North-West. One of these gentlemen, it is said, did 
not pass any of the three examinations generally re- 
quired. The preliminary he was allowed on account 
of his being engaged in the troubles of 1837, at the 
time of the second examination he was on the Red 
River expedition, and now at last he has got through 
for having served against Riel. 



I am heartily sick of the discussion, Classics versus 
Science, which has been running on for such a long 
time in this and other papers. The one side says 
“ only daring iconoclasts thoroughly understand the 
question, and they have declared that the classics must 
go.” The other side answers, “ you took only second 
place in your third year, you are not capable of dis- 
cussing the matter at all.” And so they go on, and 
the classics continue to be taught in the universities, 
and those wicked professors still hold their positions ; 
and they may hold them, as far as I am concerned, 
until doomsday. But let us change the subject. 

* * 

* 

The new medical building is well worth a visit, and 
will be, indeed, quite a surprise to those who have not 
been in the college lately. The class-rooms remind me 
somewhat of those in the new medical school at 
Edinburgh, although, of course, the building as a 
whole cannot compare with the latter. Half a million 
I think was spent on this building by the University 
of Edinburgh, and they are not yet satisfied. At pre- 
sent they have not sufficient funds to carry out their 
design, but they intend after a time to pull down a 
number of large houses and extend the building very 
considerably. One of the class-rooms is capable of 
seating six or seven hundred students. The external 
appearance of the building is very fine-the style I think 
is gothic — but the general effect is somewhat impaired 
by a tall factoiy chimney in the centre. This chimney 
is used for the ventilation of the building under a 
new plan invented by the London engineer, Mr. 
Phipson, a near relative by the way of our affable 
librarian, Mr. Taylor. On the whole I should think 
the Edinburgh medical building is the finest in the 
world. 

* * 

* 

The older part of the University is a gloomy pile, 
situated at some distance from the medical school. It 
does not look so badly once you get inside the quad- 
rangle, but its appearance from the street is certainly 
disappointing. 

*** 

“ I have been deceived ; She whom I fancied a 
daughter of paradise, has proved to be one of the in- 
famous disciples of Han ! I have lost a trifle ; I have 
gained the consolation of having discovered a deceiver. 
1 once more, therefore, relax into my former indiffer- 
ence with regard to the Canadian landladies ; they 
once more begin to appear disagreeably in my 
eyes.” 



8 McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. [ 1885 - 



The above quotation was suggested to me by a 
second visit which I paid the other evening to the 
University Gazette Club. 

* f * 

* 

I hope that none of my readers will be startled by 
the announcement, but I intend to draw attention in 
this column to one or two of the defects, as I have 
the impertinence to consider them, of the pro- 
fessors of McGill University. I do not mean, of 
course, their purely personal defects. I leave the care 
of these to their respective wives and clergymen. Nor 
yet have I the presumption to refer to their purely 
professional defects — I don’t think they have any, and 
therefore could not if I would. The defects which I 
wish to criticize are those which I consider they dis- 
play with respect to the duties devolving upon them 
on account of the position which they hold socially and 
officially, as the most important members of a great 
University placed in the midst of a large commercial 
city. I hope that what I may say will be taken in 
good part by them ; if they do not so take it, — well, I 
shall be very sorry. 

* 

This fortnight I shall merely enumerate one or two 
of the points which I wish to refer to subsequently. 
In the first place we should expect, and it is right 
that we should expect, that the professors of the 
University would form a centre of intellectual life in 
this city — a fountain from which should flow a con- 
stant stream of influence vivifying art and science 
and literature in all directions. Is this the state of 
things existing at present ? I should like to be able to 
say yes, but my regard for the truth compels me to 
say no. The energies of the professors appear to be 
exhausted in the class-rooms of the college — they 
themselves seem to have fossilized into teaching- 
machines. 

It follows as a corollary to the above, a corollary 
being, if I remember my Euclid aright, an inference 
immediately deducible from a proposition, that the 
professors should take more interest in the outside 
organizations of the University, such for instance as 
the Literary Societies and others. They should try to 
follow up the admirable work which they do in the 
class-rooms, by exerting themselves on behalf of culture 
in those more fraternal gatherings, where all meet on 
the same footing, and no one is perched on a rostrum. 

Then from a social point of view our professors are 
a perfect failure. 

* >k 
* 

“ We are delicate machines,” says Emerson, “and 
require nice treatment to get from us the maximum of 
power and pleasure. We need tonics, but must have 
those that cost little or no reaction. * * * 

Of all the cordials known to us, the best, safest, and 
most exhilirating, with the least harm, is society ; and 
every healthy and efficient mind passes a large part of 
life in the company most easy to him.” 

Jk 

Again he says of clubs, they “must be self-protecting, 
and obstacles arise at the outset. There are people 



who cannot well be cultivated, whom you must keep 
down and quiet if you can. There are those who 
have the instinct of a bat to fly against any lighted 
candle and put it out,— marplots and contradictors. 
There are those who go only to talk, and those who 
go only to hear : both are bad. A right rule for a club 
would be,— admit no man whose presence excludes 
any one topic. It requires people who are not surpris- 
ed and shocked, who do and let do, and let be, who 
sink trifles, and know solid values, and who take a 
great deal for granted.” 

There are some people we are to keep down, eh ! 

* * 

* 

I have been informed that there are certain poets of 
a dangerous character at large at present in the Uni- 
versity. Their productions are not translations from 
the German; their works are original. But they are 
works of darkness, I am afraid. One worthy gentle- 
man complained to me of having been maliciously 
libelled by one of these versifiers, “ He didn’t mind the 
libel so much, it couldn’t affect his reputation, but 
what he objected to was the doggerel in which it was 
contained.” And would you believe it, the next day 
he himself had turned poet and answered the man who 
had libelled him, with worse verses, and a worse libel. 
So liable are we to follow a bad example. 

* * 

* 

My friend “Iduna” kindly sends me the following 
touching verses, contributed by Mr. Samuel V. Cole 
to the Critic some time ago. 

A FRIEND’S BOOK. 

44 This book is his? the gorgeous dreams between 
" These covers his, the friend’s I used to know ? 

“ Yet many a mom together have we seen 
11 The clouds refold their airy tents and go. 

“ And many a silent evening from the glen, 

“ The mountains blazing with their golden camp. 

“ Fool that I was not to have known him then ! 

“ I never guessed he owned Aladdin’s lamp : 

“ He seemed like other men whom one may meet 
44 But, like the honey-bees, with skill untold, 

44 He gathered treasures even at my feet, 

44 And in the dark was building roofs of gold !” 

Critic. 



PfldBill News. 



The valedictorian of the graduating class in Medicine 
is W. C. Crockett, B.A. 

The Leslie Shelton prize for the best summer report 
in the Science Faculty, has been awarded to Brown 
and Reid, of the fourth year, their essays being of 
equal merit. 

Dr. R. F. Ruttan, B.A. (Tor.) has been appointed 
examiner in chemistry for Toronto University, one of 
the greatest honors the Senate of the University can 
confer on a young graduate. 

The annual sale of periodicals belonging to the 
Reading Room took place on Saturday, Nov. 14 th. 
Mr. McCarthy was auctioneer to perfection, and the 
sum brought by the sale was about fifty- three dollars. 



1885.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



9 



The dinner of the University Literary Society will 
come off at the Windsor Hotel next Friday evening, 
and it i* hoped that a large number of graduates and 
some undergraduates will be present. An excellent 
programme of toasts has been prepared. 

Acting on the students’ petition, the Faculty of 
Arts granted the students in their Faculty a holiday 
on Friday, the 13th. They ought to be thanked, for 
they went to the trouble of calling a special meeting 
in order to give a decision. The hint in their reply 
about sending in petitions in time for a regular Faculty 
meeting ought to receive due attention. 

The first year in Medicine are rather greedy, having 
had no less than three presidents within one month 
Their first selection was called home, then a number 
of the year assembled, and one of them said “ well ar- 
range this. I’ll be president if you like,” and they 
liked. Soon after, a general meeting of the year was 
held when President No. 2 resigned, but failed to be 
reelected. He was heard to remark afterwards that 
“ he was sorry he resigned.” Their third ruler uneasy 
walks the earth, for another revolution is rumored, when 
doubtless some more popular man will appear. 

The annual fall hare and hounds of our college was 
held on Friday, Nov. 13th. Reford and Johnson, the 
hares, got off at 10 a.m., and seven minutes after their 
departure eleven hounds started in pursuit. The 
course was along the east end of the mountain, then 
westward between the two cemeteries to the quarries. 
St. Laurent was then a goal for the hares, but Prit- 
chard, one of the hounds, caught up just as they en- 
tered the village. Seven of the eleven hounds were in 
at the death. In the ran home, A. R. Johnson, one 
of the hares, was first in. Despite the mud and 
mist the run seems to have been very successful. The 
main incidents were : a head and cheese lunch at St. 
Laurent, and two men down with cramps on the home 
run. 

On Saturday, Nov. 14th., at 8.55 a.m , the members 
of the Geology Class met Sir William Dawson at 
Bonaventure station. The turn out was very poor, 
when the splendid state of the weather is taken into 
consideration ; but those present determined to make 
up in interest what they lacked in number. The first 
point, St. Anne’s, being reached, the Principal led his 
pupils to the points of greatest interest, the oldest rock 
formation on the Island of Montreal. This is a ridge 
of Potsdam Sandstone running north-west and south- 
east. The so-called Calciforous sandstone was then 
visited, and the relative positions of this and the Pots- 
dam found out. After a good forenoon’s work, the 
party returned, heavily laden to the station, where 
lunch was discussed,— the meal being much improved 
by Sir William’s thoughtful kindness. Pointe Claire 
was the next place, the quarries being the principal 
points. The bags for collecting the specimens of 
the party were gradually swelling with the many 
rich prizes, till darkness came on. Fortunately the 
home train was on time, and Montreal was reached in 
time for a late supper. The desire for a trip to some 
Laurentian formation was expressed on the homeward 
journey, which feeling evidently arose from the enjoy- 
ment of this excursion. 



Societies. 

UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY. 

A meeting of this society was held on Friday even- 
ing, the 14th inst., Mr. McGoun, the President, in the 
chair. 

There was a good attendance, the following being 
present : Messrs. Archibald, S. Cross. Goldstein, 

Sproule, Barnard, Rev. J. A. Newnham, Murray, 
Budden, Turner, Reddy, Colquhoun, Bryson, Uns- 
worth, Brown, Elliot, Brooke, Mackie, Wright, Fry, 
R. Greenshields, Dunton and Campbell. 

The large audience was drawn, no doubt, by the in- 
terest attached at the present time to the subject for 
discussion, “ Should the penalty of death be inflicted 
for political offences V ’ as well as by the ability of the 
gentlemen chosen to speak, Messrs. Archibald, Hutch- 
inson, Cooke and Doherty. None of these gentlemen 
put in an appearance, except Mr. Archibald. His 
speech was, as might have been expected from the 
legal knowledge and great ability of the speaker, a 
good one. Mr. Selkirk Cross kindly volunteered and 
spoke forcibly and well. In every other respect the 
debate was a grand fizzle. A large audience went 
away disappointed, and the sooner the society rises to 
a sense of its own dignity and treats such disrespect 
as that shown by members who have accepted posi- 
tions on a debate and absent themselves, sometimes for 
poor, very frequently for no reason at all, as it de- 
serves, the better for itself. 

UNDERGRADUATES’ LITERARY SOCIETY. 

The meeting of this society, Nov. 20th, was unusu- 
ally interesting and lengthy. Several motions were 
brought before the meeting, and, after considerable 
discussion, were carried. One of these motions was 
to the effect — That a letter be sent to the University 
Literary Society in acknowledgment of a friendly 
circular received from that society, about the begin- 
ning of this session. Another provided for a lecture 
by Sir Wm. Dawson before the society at the begin- 
ning of next term ; and the third was an amendment 
in the constitution. The programme was introduced 
by an essay given by Mr. H. M. Patton, entitled “ The 
Taking of the Bastile.” Mr. J. Hislop gave a reading 
entitled “ Bullum vs. Boatum.” The subject for de- 
bate — “ Resolved, that it would be in the interest of 
higher education to federate all Canadian Universities 
into one University,” was next taken up. E. E. 
Braithwaite led the affirmative, pointing out that the 
accumulated wealth would result in greater educa- 
tional attainments. A. R. Johnson next, spoke on 
the affirmative, showing the national benefit to be de- 
rived from the mingling of students from all parts of 
Canada. A. P. Bryson followed next on the same 
side, upholding the arguments of the affirmative. The 
negative was supported by Messrs. F. Charters, M. H. 
Patton and W. A. Duke. Mr. Charters pointed out 
the difficulty of creed and nationality. Mr. Patton 
showed that by such a scheme smaller towns would be 
deprived of their literary life. There being a tie of 
votes, the chair decided in favor of the affirmative. 
Mr. F. Topp having read his critique for the evening, 
the meeting adjourned. 



10 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1885. 



McGILL MEDICAL SOCIETY. 

On November 7th, the McGill Medical Society met 
at 14 Phillips Square. The President Dr. Stewart, in 
the chair. After the appointment of committees to 
procure keys for reading room and to order journals, 
periodicals, dailies etc., for the same, twenty one new 
members were elected. 

Mr. A. Campbell then read a very interesting and 
carefully prepared paper on vaccination, which elicited 
some interesting and humorous discussion. It is 
highly desirable that more of the final year take a 
livelier interest in the society than is manifested at 
present. The society has a very large membership 
this year. 

In future the fortnightly meetings will be held in 
the Reading Room of the society. 



THE MARITIME ASSOCIATION. 

The second annual meeting of the Maritime Asso- 
ciation of McGill University was held on the evening 
of Wednesday, the 4th inst. There was a large and 
enthusiastic attendance of members, among whom were 
not a few new faces. The chief business of the even- 
ing, the election of officers for the ensuing year, result- 
ed in the appointment of the following : President, 

A. D. MacDonald ; First Vice-President, E. A. Kirk- 
patrick ; Second Vice President, R. E. Palmer; Secre- 
tary, H. D. Fritz ; Treasurer, W. B. Taylor. The 
General Committee was also appointed, consisting of 
the following five members : C. P. Ball, H. E. Ken- 
dall, J. A. Nicholson, F. J. Desmond, P. H. Warne- 
ford. 

After a discussion of some length, in which a num- 
ber of the members participated, it was resolved that 
the Association hold an annual dinner. The Secretary 
was requested to send a report of this, the annual meet- 
ing, to the leading papers of the Maritime Provinces. 



MOOT COURT. 

A session of the Moot Court was held on the 29th 
ult. M. Hutchinson, Esq. B. C. L. presiding. In re 
John Jones vs Thomas Brown, a petition was presented 
by Messrs Murchison and Bourgeois, Atty’s. for Defen- 
dant, to quash a capias issued at the/ instance of 
Plaintiff. 

The grounds upon which the petition was based 

were these : That the wife of plaintiff was legally 

incompetent to make an affidavit upon which to issue 
a writ of capias ; that the affidavit did not allege the 
domicile of plaintiff ; that the statement of the cause 
of indebtedness is insufficient ; that it is not stated that 
the note mentioned in the affidavit is now due ; that 
the affidavit does not declare where the debt was con- 
tracted, and that the grounds for believing the debtor 
about to leave the Province with intent to defraud are 
insufficient. 

Messrs. Wright and McKay, Atty’s. for Plaintiff', 
opposed the petition. 

The learned judge in rendering judgement highly 
complimented the Attorneys on both sides for the 
ability with which they had conducted the case, re- 



marking that their speeches would compare favourably 
with those heard every day in our courts. 

Held that points 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 raised in Defendant’s 
petition were ill-founded ; but that the grounds . for 
believing the debtor about to leave the Province 
with intent to defraud, as stated in the affidavit, were 
insufficient, and that therefore the capias must be 
quashed. 



UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY. 

A meeting of this society was held on the evening 
of Friday the 6th inst. Mr. M.cGoun, the President, 
in the chair. 

Mr. Dunton was elected a member of the society. 
The President explained the reasons which induced 
the general committee to change the place of meeting ; 
and also intimated that the Council was considering 
the advisability of asking the society to hold a dinner 
this year. 

The debate upon, — “Should a degree in Arts be a 
necessary qualification for admission to the study of 
the learned professions?” then followed. Messrs. 
Francis McLennan and A. McGoun jr., spoke on the af- 
firmative, and Messrs C. J. Brooke and J. K. Unsworth 
on the negative. Mr.McLennan is one of the most pleas- 
ing speakers the society possesses : he reasons well, 
speaks fiuently, uses well-chosen language,and has a fund 
of very enjoyable good-natured humour, which he con- 
trives to weave into his speeches. Mr. Unsworth’s 
speech was an exceedingly good one. His arguments 
were practical and were handled in an effective manner. 
This gentleman is to be congratulated upon his debut 
in the society, and the society upon the ability evident- 
ly possessed by some of its newly elected members. 
Messrs Brooke and McGoun both spoke without pre- 
vious preparation. 

The decision of the meeting was in favour of the 

negative. The following members were present : 

Messrs. Fry, Brooke, F. McLennan, Mackie, Elliot, 
Wright, Smith, Oughtred, Murray, Dunton, Unsworth, 
and Colquhoun 



UNDERGRADUATES’ LITERARY SOCIETY. 

The meeting of this society on the evening of Nov. 
6th, was called to order by the President, Mr. N. P. 
Yates. Mr. Mason’s motion to amend the constitution 
was taken up, and, after Mr. Topp had withdrawn his 
amendment, the meeting decided to let the constitu- 
tion remain unaltered. 

Messrs. F. Pedley, Topp and Hibbard gave notices 
of motion. 

Mr. Chalmers opened the programme with an essay 
on “ Small-pox.” This proved very interesting, as one 
might well suppose. The reader of the evening was 
Mr. A. Bryan, who sought to benefit the morals of the 
Society by “ A Modem Sermon.” 

“ Resolved, that the first year entrance examinations 
ol McGill University should be made equivalent to the 
present matriculation into the second year,” was the 
subject under discussion. Messrs. H. Goff, H. Curtis 
and A. Mac Arthur were eloquent enough to obtain a 
verdict in favour of the affirmative, although the nega- 



1885 .] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



11 



tive side was ably supported by Messrs. F. Hibbard* 
Pritchard, and G. W. Stevens. Mr. F. Pedley, the 
critic, made his remarks, which won approval from 
all. 

The meeting on the evening of Nov. 13th. was called 
to order by Mr. N. P. Yates, the President, the follow- 
ing members being present : Messrs, Braithwaite, 

Clements, McOuat, Pedley, Topp, Cameron, Gerrie, 
MacArthur, Murray, Solandt, Duke, Jamieson, Ped- 
ley, Pritchard, Curtis, Sweeney, Buchanan, Johnson, 
Mason, Reford, Lucas, Hopkins, Hislop, McCallum, 
McPhail, the Vice-President, R. Henderson, and two 
visitors. Mr. Hibbard’s motion to amend the consti- 
tution was withdrawn. Mr. Pedley’s motion was 
partly discussed. Mr. Topp gave notice of motion. 

The programme was opened by an essay on “ Public 
Speaking,” by Mr. A. P. Solandt ; there was evidence 
of great care in preparation, and a thorough know- 
ledge of the subject in this rather lengthy paper. “The 
Aged Man ” was the extract for reading chosen by 
Mr. MacArthur. 

“ Resolved that Chinese Immigration to Canada 
should be Prohibited,” was supported by Messrs. Ger- 
rie, McPhail, and Murray, and attacked by Messrs. 
McOuat, Cameron and Mason. Justice may have 
triumphed, as well as eloquence, for the negative side 
was sustained by the meeting. E. H. P. Blackader, 
B.A., being present, said a few words, and the meet- 
ing adjourned at a late hour after hearing Mr. McCal- 
lum’s critical remarks. 



Sporting. 



FOOTBALL NOTES. 

On Thanksgiving Day the Freshmen, although play- 
ing only twelve men, beat the Third Fifteen of the 
Britannia’s, by the score of 59 points to 0. 

The return match for the Faculty championship, 
between Science and Medicine, was played on the 
13th inst. Science, who had two men less than their 
opponents, won by 8 points to 1 after a very exciting 
contest. This leaves Science in possession of the covet- 
ed honor. 

The Second Fifteen of the Britannia’s defeated the 
Second Fifteen of McGill on the 14th. At the end of 
the first three quarters the score favored the Britannia’s 
by 2 to 0, but in the second half time McGill went to 
pieces, and were finally beaten by 23 to 0. 

The annual meeting of the Football Club, to re 
organize for the session of ’86-7, took place on the 
evening of the 17th instant and was signalled by the 
largest attendance known for years, nearly 60 members 
being present. After routine and special business, one 
item of which was a provision for the drafting of a new 
and most necessary constitution, the election of officers 
took place and resulted as follows : — 

President — R. E. Palmer, Ap. Sc. 

Secretary — W. J. Hamilton, Ap. Sc. 

Treasurer — J. A. Springle, Med. 

Captain — A. E. J. Macdonnell, Med. 



Committee — Henderson and Kirby, Arts ; May and 
Macnutt, Science ; Bradley and Taylor, Medicine ; 
Budden, Law. 

As luige and energetic a meeting as this augus well 
for the success of the club next year. 



FOOTBALL. 

The committee have decided to give a handsome cup 
as an Annual Inter-Faculty Trophy. The Faculty 
winning in a series of matches will be entitled to hold 
the cup for a year. This is a move in the right direc- 
tion, and will be sure to increase the already largely 
reviving interest in football. 



McGILL vs. TORONTO. 

We went up by instalments, fifteen on Thursday 
and nine on Friday, both parties, especially the first, 
making things lively for the other passengers. The 
terrible vaccinator, before whom we had been prepared 
to tremble, was a young fellow as light-hearted as our- 
selves, and from him we of the second brigade learnt 
the doings of the first : how they sang, played the 
guitar, bounced a companion, to the disgust of the 
conductor, who seemed to think this his perogative, 
and finally, how they, even the captain, larked with 
the lazy members of the team far into the “ wee sma 
hours.” 

We had our larks too, but these were of a milder 
kind, and not long after we had passed Ottawa, all 
but two of us were adding a gentle snore to the noisy 
rumble of the car. These two, confirmed late-hour 
men, stood on the platform, smoking and spinning 
yarns until nearly one o’clock. 

We were met at Toronto by the members of the 
first brigade, who escorted us to the Walker House for 
breakfast, after which we turned out to do the town. 
Those of us who went to the ’Varsity were very kindly 
shown through its magnificent buildings by one of the 
students, but the rest of us had to depend on our own 
bumps of locality to bring us back to the Walker 
House. We had come up prepared to be shunned as 
small-pox disseminators but our imagination had never 
led us to dream that we should be mistaken for soldiers 
of the Salvation Army, as we were. However we 
flatter ourselves that we undeceived the citizens before 
we left. 

At two o’clock we all piled into a chartered ’buss 
and drove to the ’Varsity, our fellows singing lustily 
within and being now and then cheered by the crowd 
that gathered in the streets as we passed. We soon 
entered the ’Varsity gates and, drawing up before the 
main entrance to the college, poured out, a flood of ex- 
cited humanity, upon the sodden grounds. 

Then ensued a wait of twenty minutes for a member 
of the team who had allowed the charms of one of 
Toronto’s fair daughters to silence the call of duty. 
He turned up in time and play began at three o’clock, 
the ’Varsity kicking off. Our “ half backs ” were not 
quick enough in returning and a series of scrimmages 
resulted, ending in a rouge on our part. Senkler 
got the ball as it was kicked off and ran down to our 



12 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1885. 



goal, losing it just at the line but forcing another 
rouge. Brown kicked the ball out, sending it bouncing 
into touch, but on its being thrown out Senkler got it 
again and made a neat run behind our goal line, his 
speed being too much for Hamilton. The kick was a 
failure and play was resumed with greater vim that 
ever, McGill slowly forcing the leather up the field by 
a series of scrimmages, in which May and Dunlop 
particularly distinguished themselves by foiling all 
attempts to run on the part of the Toronto wings. It 
was beginning to rain, but so intense was the excite- 
ment of the spectators that few left the field. Just 
before half-time Dunlop got in a good run and the 
ball was brought well up to the Toronto goal. 

Play was resumed at 3.55, McGill rushing the ball 
down into dangerous proximity to their opponents’ 
goal. But in the scrimmage that ensued the superior 
weight of the ’Varsity told and the ball was slowly 
but surely driven back, until at last, by a piece of 
rapid passing, it got into the hands of Ed Senkler and 
was dropped over our cross bar. 

This took place in the fourth quarter-of-an-hour 
and from this to the end the advantage was, if any- 
thing, with McGill, who concentrated their energies 
and, following the ball as it was kicked oft*, overtook 
the ’Varsity “ backs” before they could return it and 
forced them to rouge. Scrimmages became the order 
of the day, the advantage lying sometimes with the 
one, sometimes with the other team. Ed. Senkler got 
the ball about this time and made a touch, Hamilton 
and others, thinking he had run over the touch line, 
not attempting to check him. The kick from this 
was, like the preceding one, a failure. 

Had the touch line been properly marked out and 
the crowd kept back, Senkler would never have got 
within twenty-five yards of our goal. The score was 
16 to 1 in favor of Toronto when time was called, yet 
the game had been so well contested that it never at 
any moment appeared one-sided. 

The ’Varsity owed their victory in part to their 
better team play, but chiefly to their superior weight 
and strength, the difference between the two teams 
being so marked that a spectator was heard to say as 
the teams came upon the field, “ What’s the use send- 
ing up those boys to play our men 

The play was good-humoured throughout, though 
terribly in earnest. Springle broke one of his fingers 
early in the match, but played on gamily to the end, 
to the disappointment of the reserves. 

The teams were as follows : 



McGill. 




* Varsity. 


W. Hamilton, 


Back. 


W. P. Mustard 


C. B. Brown, 


Half-backs- 


C. Marani 


W. Reid, 


** 


H. Senkler 


H. Kemp, 


Quarter-backs. 


J Moss 


J. Dunlop, 


E. Senkler 


J. May, 
J. Kerry, 


Forwards. 


A.' Elliott 




H. McLaren 


R. O’Sullivan, 




G. Richardson. 


J. Kerby, 




W. Nesbitt 


R. Palmer, 




H. B. Cronyn. 


J. Nasmith, 




H. B. Bruce 


C. McNutt, 




F. Robertson 


J. Springle, 
H. Patton, 




D. Ferguson 




A. G. Smith 


W. Macdonnell, 


Referee— 0. Gordon. 


J. S. Mac Lean 


C. Swabey. 


Umpires. 


C. Pardee. 



The complimentary dinner at the Rossin House was 
a grand success. Cronyn and Kerry in their speeches 
and Frost, Hughes, Patton and Aylen with their songs 
bringing down the house. Time was short, however, 
and we soon broke up. The ’Varsity men accompanied 
us to the station, and amid songs and cheers we rolled 
out into the darkness of our homeward journey. 



Personals. 



Dr. G. B. Rowell, ’84 has a flourishing practice at 
Point St. Charles. 

A. A. MacKay, B.A., has registered as a student a 
the Dalhousie Law School in Halifax. 

T. Henderson, Science, ’87, is now working on the 
Waddington Railway, near Ogdensburg. 

Mr. J. A. Boyd, Law ’88, is down with typhoid 
fever, but we rejoice to hear he is recovering. 

Professors Darey and Coussirat have been appointed 
officiers d' academie, not officers of the French Aca- 
demy. 

Henry Hamilton, B. Ap. Sc., ’84, has returned from 
exploring the Rockies. He enjoyed everything save 
the salt pork. 

Dr. D. J. G. Wishart, B.A. (Tor.) M.D. ; C.M. 
(McGill) M.C.P. and S. (Ont.) has supplied a want 
long felt by adding L.R.C.P. (Lond.) at the recent ex- 
aminations. Come home skipper, you’ve got enough I 



College Ulorlti. 



— “The university,” says Mr. Lowell “is not the 
school for a breadwinner, but my idea is rather that it 
should be the life-long sweetness of all the bread lie 
ever gets.” 

Dr. Wm. B. Carpenter, the distinguished micros- 
copist, died a few days ago from the effect of burns 
caused by the overturning of a lamp. He was a brother 
of the Dr. Carpenter whose fine collection of shells 
now adorns our Museum. 

According to the Lyons Medical, the number of 
women practicing Medicine in England in 1881 was 
twenty five. From 1880 to 1884 eight had been 
placed in Asylums, and at the end of last year three 
were under treatment. In the same country one out 
of every seven hundred physicians or clergymen be- 
came insane. Among lawyers the proportion was one 
in a hundred. 

The cause of the higher education of women has 
been steadily advancing in Russia since 1867. In that 
year a woman suggested to a congress of naturalists at 
St. Petersburg the advisability of founding a univer- 
sity for women. The congress ruled her proposals out 
of order, but in the following year 400 Russian women 
presented a written demand to the professors of the 
St. Petersburg University, asking them to organize 



1885.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



13 



special lectures upon scientific subjects, and these were 
given in a modified form from 1870 to 1875, when re- 
gular courses of learning for women were established. 
In the first year of the lectures being authorized they 
were attended by 581 students, and the total attendance 
for the last seven years has been upward of 2500. A 
new lecture room has recently been opened for the 
accommodation of the female students. 

It is stated that there are 139 medical schools in the 
United States and Canada, containing about 12,000 
students, viz., 10,000 regular, 1200 homoeopathic, 750 
eclectic and 50 physio-medical students. The total 
number of doctors is about 100,000, or on an average 
one to every 500 inhabitants. 

The University of New Brunswick, begins the pre- 
sent session with three professors, one lecturer, and a 
freshman class of about 30. Dr. Harrison, recently 
professor of English literature and moral science, has 
succeeded Dr. W. Brydone Jack, as principal of the 
University. Never, perhaps, in the history of the 
university, were there more strenuous efforts put forth 
to increase the influence and patronage of this institu- 
tion, than at present. 

The Queen’s College, Kingston, students are strict. 
The Concursus Iniquitatis (court of iniquity) takes 
notice of the following crimes, contained in an in- 
timation posted up, and claiming that students, and 
freshmen especially, are amenable to the court for the 
following offences : 1. Cheek. 2. Misappropriating 

articles. 3. Destroying college property. 4. Using 
tobacco in any form or at any place. 5. Showing dis- 
respect to professors. 6. Showing undue preference 
for ladies society. 7. Ostentatiously displaying cane 
or gloves. 8. Neglecting to give senior students pre- 
ference, especially in regard to choice seats at public 
concerts. 9. Using profane or indecent language. 10. 
Entering saloons. 11. Frequenting operas. ^Neglect- 
ing class work, or neglecting to wear the college 
costumes during class hours in college. 13. Contempt 
of court. 

Evidently the life philosophic tends to longevity. 
There are at present at the various German Universities 
no fewer than one hundred and fifty-seven professors 
between the ages of seventy and ninety. Of these, 
one hundred and twenty-two deliver their lectures as 
usual, seven of them being more than eighty-five years 
of age. The oldest is the veteran Von Ranke, the 
historian, who is now in his nine tieth year, but is not 
considered fully equal in vigor, memory and other 
faculties to Professor Elvenich, who is thirty-nine 
days his junior. After all, it is not remarkable that 
a professor should live to a good old age. He has a 
secured income and congenial pursuits. He ought to 
be devoid of the unworthy passions that shorten exis- 
tence, and to lead a life as placid as that of the gods 
of Epicurus. But Germany, in spite of the figures 
we have quoted, cannot show a professor equal to M. 
Chevreuil, of Paris, who still lectures, still writes, still 
conducts his experiments in chemistry, still walks 
every day from his house to his laboratory, and will, 
if he lives, be one hundred years of age in the August 
of next year . — London Register . 



Between the Lectures. 



A lady who swept up the aisle 
With her hair all arranged in a paislo 
To her escort thus spoke : 

“ What causes the folk, 

Whenever I pass by to smaisle ?” 



OUR OWN JOKER AT WORK. 

First Toronto Small Boy : “See, Jim ! them’s the 

Salvation Army. My eyes, don’t they howl.” 

Second T. S. B. : “ Oh, psha, them ain’t the Salva- 
tion blokes. Them’s the McGill boys.” 

A musical Amateur to Professor : “ Herr von 

Schlamhardt, don’t you think my voice is a good 
baritone V 9 

“ Professor, “ Yes, wheel-barrow tone.” 

Junior, to fresh trying to raise a moustache, “What’s 
the difference between your moustache and a yeast 
plant V’ 

“ Freshie, effusively, “ The tendency of the one is 
down , and of the other is up V 

Junior, “ No.” 

“ Freshie, “ What is it then V ’ 

“ Junior, crushingly, “ No difference except that the 
yeast plant grows at the rate of several million cells 
per day.” 

Our punster wants to know if one of our surveying 
instruments gets its name from the odd delight it gives 
to students who have to use it while they want to play 
football. 

It is said, though we do not believe it, that a soph 
has a girl who buttons her boots with the curved 
handle of her parasol. If this is true, she must be a 
person of solid understanding and doubtless puts her 
foot down to some purpose. 

One who signs himself “ A Friend ” sends us the 
following execrable puns, which make us doubt his 
friendly intentions. He has evidently been struck 
with our mineral cabinet of last number. 

“ Whoever has seen apetite and not able to cerite 
has usually found him having emerg time in allophite , 
and though he may not have looked aphrite when he 
went in he certainly is a chabazite when he comes 
out.” 

It is not our enemies but our friends, of whom we 
must beware. 

A certain med. who boards at the Wesleyan College 
is fond of a Sunday morning nap. Last Sunday he 
was wakened by his neighbors who were singing 
hymns, and just as they were in the middle of “ Pall 
for the shore,” he horrified them by shouting out “ I 
wish you fellows wouldn’t sing boating songs on 
Sunday.” 

“So poor Jones has the small-pox,” said Fitznoodle 
to Smith. 

“ Yes, poor fellow, I feel for him.” 

“ Well,” went on Fitznoodle, getting out of Smith’s 
reach, “ A man with the small-pox is sure to be pitted , 
you know.” 



14 



McGILL UNIVEKSITY GAZETTE, 



Why is Prince Alexander's kingdom like the seat 
of a boy’s pants ? Because its the Bulgaria. 

Our “ Assistant Professor ” says that mineral analy- 
sis seems to be chiefly “ A demmed horrid grind. 
This is a morteriymg announcement for would-be 
chemists. 

Jones, to Smith — “ You’re the laziest fellow I 
know.” 

Smith — “ I’m not nearly so lazy as I might be.” 

Jones — “ How do you make that out? You don’t 
get up until ten, and you never do a stroke of work 
from the time you get up till the time you go to bed 
again.” 

Smith — “ I might get up at eight, you know. That 
would give me two more hours of solid loafing.” 

We have had conventions of bankers, of telegraph 
operators, of brakemen, of merchants, and, in fact, of 
nearly every kind of men. The latest suggestion is for 
all the poets to meet and hold sweet communion with 
one another in New York or London next year. If 
the idea is carried into practical effect, it will at last 
give the dynamiters a chance to confer an inestimable 
boon on the entire civilized world. 

“ Can’t you tell me, sir, where I might find a situa- 
tion ?” asked a young man of a Montreal citizen. “ I 
am a stranger here.” “ What at ?” was the reply. “ Oh 
anything at all ; I am not afraid to work.” “ Got any 
recommendations ?” “ Well, no ; but I am industrious, 
I am honest, I go to church regularly, I don’t drink, I 
don’t chew, I don’t smoke, I don’t lie.” “ Ah ! I see. 
Just apply around the corner at the dime museua?.” 



(torresponbence. 



THE STUDY OF CLASSICS. 

Editors University Gazette : 

Dear Sirs. — I have neither time nor inclination 
to answer attacks that may be made upon myself or 
my writings, especially when, as in the letter of 
H.M.P., those attacks contain their own refutation. 
The evidences in that letter of the “ deep and various 
thought ” which comes from “ doing classics thorough- 
ly ” are too striking to call for comment. But the 
letter permits me, without suspicion of egotism, to 
state a few facts, personal to myself, which in judging 
the merits of optional, as opposed to compulsory 
courses, should weigh more than the most lengthy 
argument. 

In the years immediately preceding my entrance to 
college, though even then strongly possessed with 
utilitarian ideas, I came under the influence of a man 
of singularly fine intellect, an enthusiastic student of 
the classics, and one whose power of translating from 
Greek or Latin into vivid English words I have never 
seen surpassed. The result was that, involuntarily, I 
learned something of the dead languages, and my 
“standing” was rather above than “below the average.” 
On coming to McGill I found another system. Where 
before I had been brought face to face with glowing 
flesh, I was now confronted with dry bones. Then I 
formed the plan which afterwards 1 deliberately 



[1885. 



executed. I absented myself from as many of the so- 
called lectures on classics as I could, without jeopar- 
dising my year, and during each of the first two 
sessions I never wasted any time in preparation of 
class recitations, save when I expected to be called 
upon to construe. A few days — once only two — 
before examination, I commenced to cram, and in not 
a great many hours prepared enough of a session’s 
work to pass an examination upon it. Naturally my 
“ standing was rather below the average. 

Mine was not an isolated case either. My plan 
was that of others in the same year, and out. Of my 
class nineteen graduated, and not one of them in the 
third grade ; yet of the nineteen, eight refused to 
study classics at all after the second year, only three 
took both Latin and Greek, and not one chose the 
honour course in classics. I may affirm more. The 
number of students in classics would have been less 
even than it was, had it not been for the regulations 
of the various theological colleges and the bar. 

It would be wrong to suppose that the time, which 
was not devoted to clascics by those who pursued the 
system I have described, was wasted. It was spent 
profitably in the library, the gymnasium, the football 
field, and the debating society, each of these institu- 
tions receiving a stronger support from the students of 
’84 than from those of any other year then in college. 

Are not these facts to the point? A man may 
enter the greatest institution of learning on this Con- 
tinent, the honoured university of Harvard, without 
knowing one Greek letter from another, and, after he 
has entered, he need never lift the cover of a Latin 
work ; but then he must know French and German, 
the pure mathematics, the elements of chemistry and 
botany, psychology and logic. Supposing McGill 
University had dealt thus liberally with the class of 
’84, the class to which it is my pride and boast to have 
belonged, what would have been the result? For one 
thing, the class would have graduated more than nine- 
teen, for some of its brightest intellects dropped out 
in disgust before the end of the second year finding in 
college no profit for themselves. And those who 
took the classical course would have been so few, that 
they would have been brought to early graves by the 
frequency with which “ your turn to read ” and “well 
gwonn” would have sounded in their ears. 

But seriously, I put it to any reasonable person 
whether it is not cruel to force students into a study 
which, they believe, cannot ever be of the slightest 
possible advantage to them. No wonder that in such 
work they prefer their standing to be “ rather below 
the average.” 

Yours faithfully, 

W. H. Turner. 



vT- MARIE1T, 

Rais Usesses and Wig Maker, 

1368 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 

WELLINGTON ARCADE, 
MONTREAL. 



reriumery ana Hair Uooas kept in stock. Spec a attention for 

LADIES’ CHAMPOOING and CHILDREN'S HAIR CUTTING. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



MEN'S FURNI SHINGS. 

For the Largest and Best Selected Stock of the following Goods, at Lowest Prices, 

Come to S. CARSLEY’S. 

GREY FLANNEL SHIRTS, BLUE FLANNEL SHIRTS, FANCY FLANNEL SHIRTS. 

All the above with Collar attached or without. 

CARDIGAN JACKETS , in all Sizes, Qualities and Kinds, 

At S. CARSLEY’S. 

CARDIGAN JACKETS WITHOUT SLEEVES. CARDICAN JACKETS WITHOUT SLEEVES. 

CARDIGAN JACKETS WITHOUT SLEEVES. 

At S. CARSLEY’S. 

) CARDIGAN JACKETS FROM 65c. TO 89.00 ( 

At S. CARSLEY’S. 

For MEN’S UNDERWEAR, in all imaginable makes, qualities and Sizes. 

Come to S. CARSLEY’S. 

Men's Canadian Undershirts, with Drawers to match, from 22c. up to $1.00, 

At S.f CARSLEY’S. 

Men’s Real Scotch Lambs' Wool Undershirts, from $1.20 up to $4.20, 

At S. CARSLEY’S. 



S. CARSLEY, 



N0 THE DAME STREET, 



J. & E. McENTYRE, 

Merchant 4 ^- 

^ TAILORS, 



1671 [E 



! M 



32r 






MONTREAL, 



BIC YCLES ! ! 

Lawn Tennis Sets, Foot 
Balls, Boxing Gloves, 
Fencing Foils, 
Masks, &c. 



— ALSO — 

PRIZES OF ALE DESCRIPTION •*.- 

WEDDING, CHRISTMAS AND BIRTHDAY PRESENTS, 

Fancy Goods, Electro Plate, &c. 






New Seale of Prices 



THIS YEAR 

-h|£FOR students#^ 



WATSON & PELTON, 

53 ST. SULPICE STREET. 



IE. .A.. GEBTH, 

IMPORTER OF 




Itriar and Meerschaum Pipes, 



SULTANS, KHEDIVES AND BEYS EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES IN BOXES OF 25. 

ZOxy St\a.cLe».ts 2v£i2ct-u.re.. 

/ Paces and other Cut Plugs from $1.00 upwards. 



17 BLETTB.Y ST. 



1323 ST. CATHERINE ST., QUEEN’S BLOCK. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



GEO. BROWN & SONS, 

Meeumemt Wmms & 9 

jlljirl nnb ©oJIhij fiamifHrliirars, 

21 BLEURY ST. 

Snow Shoe & Toboganing Suits, Tuques, Sashes. 
Stockings, &c„ &c. 

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 

jltingttal Jnslruminls. 

A FULL STOCK CONSTANTLY ON HAND 

IMPORTED DIRECT 

—FROM THE— 

Leading Manufacturers of the World. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. 




384 ST. PAUL STREET. 



C. ASHFORD'S 

Cheap Book, Stationery, 



.A. IT 33 




MEDICAL BOOKS, 

Students’ Note Books, Dissecting Cases & Scalpels, 

[BIT WEISS & SO 1ST], 

OKCEAI* FOR OASIS. 

Books procured to order from England & the United States. 

678L AND 680 DORCHESTER ST., 

MONTREAL. 

PHOTOG-E/APHY. 

Fcr Cabinet Photos, go to 



SUM MERH AYES & W ALFORD'S. 

For Croups go to 

SUM MERH AYES & W ALFORD'S. 

For Composition of Croups go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD’S. 

For all kinds of Photography go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD'S. 
SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleury Street. 



THE 

Jjnrlaqfl Jithoj5rapl|ic (Jo’y., 

5 & 7 BLEURY STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

General Engravers, Lithographers, 
Printers and Publishers. 

This establishment is the oldest in Canada and is the 
largest and most complete of its kind in the Dominion, having 
every facility for executing 

ALL KINDS 

OF 

ffrEngraving and Fine Printings 



NOTES, DRAFTS, CHEQUES, BILLS OF EXCHANGE 
and all classes of BANK WORK, finely executed on 
safety or other paper of the latest and 
most improved kinds. 



BILLHEADS, BUSINESS OAEDS, NOTE & LETTER 
HEADINGS, ENVELOPES 

and every description of commercial form, 

By Lithography or Letter Press Printing. 

SHOW CARDS, GLOSS LABELS, COTTON TIC- 
KETS, HAPS, CALENDARS, and EVERY SPECIES of 
COLOR PRINTING. 



PHOTO-LITHOGRAPHY 

Reproductions rapidly and clearly made. 



Photo-Engraving', 

BOOKS. PLANS. PEN DRAWINGS and MAPS, repro- 
duced suitable for ORDINARY PRINTER'S USE. 

PROCESS. 

We are the only firm in Canada Really Engraving 
subjects by this process, and can produce specimens of map 
work equal to the best work by U. S. artists. 



ELECTROTYPING and STEREOTYPING 

In all tlieir several branches. 

Ball Programmes, Invitations, At Home and Visitin g 
Cards, neatly and tastefully engraved and printed. 

SPECIAL DESIGNS MADE FOR 

MENU OAEDS, GEESTS, M0N06EAMS, BUSINESS 
DIES, &c., &c. 

And all kinds of Paper, Envelopes and Cards 

Embossed and Illuminated. 



