The McGill Gazette. 



Vol. II, Neiu Seies. McGill College, November 15th, 1875. 



No. 2. 



The Editors of the McGill Gazette earnestly appeal to the Students of the University, 
irrespective of Faculties, to aid them in the publication of the College paper. Any communications 
will be received by any of the Editors. 

It is the intention of the present Editors to have Editors from the faculties of Law and 
Medicine elected by the Students of those faculties who will represent them on the editorial staff. 
The terms of the paper are such as to put it within the reach of all and they earnestly look 
for assistance and encouragement. 

They also appeal to the Graduates of the University, who will, they hope, aid the enterprise 
of their younger brethren in “ Alma Mater.” At an early date they expect to receive contribu- 
tions from several “ Alumni ” who are at present studying abroad. 

Information concerning Graduates, or others connected with the University will be 
thankfully received. 

Editors McGill Gazette. 



LITERARY. 



Pedestrianism in the White Mountains 

(Continued.) 

Here the passage is only some thirty feet in 
width. This is called the Gate. Passing through 
we came to a large opening in which stands the 
“ Crawford House,” one of the first of the 
Mountain Hotels, and a short distance in front 
of it the small lake which is the head waters of 
the Saco. 

About a hundred rods from the Crawford 
House, we came to a ticket which pointed to 
the left and informed us that that road would 
take us up Mount Willard. So following the 
direction we turned and plunged into the forest. 
A good road leads up the mountain, and after 
climbing for about three quarters of an hour we 
emerged upon the bald summit .of Mount 
Willard. This mountain is a shoulder of Mount 
Willey, which rises behind it, and is 2,500 feet 
above sea level. The view to the North, East, 



and West is limited, but to the South, down the 
valley of the Saco, it is magnificent. Standing on 
a ledge of rock two feet wide, we looked down 
the valley, so heavily and darkly wooded, that 
the river looks like a fine white ribbon winding 
through it, while beneath us was a precipice of 
sheer rock 1500 or 2000 feet in height, around 
the base of which led the carriage road, and 
opposite and above us rose the heights of Mount 
Webster, with its cascades leaping down its face, 
a thousand feet at a jump. About half way 
down the valley is the clearing with the Willey 
house standing on it, whose inhabitants, the 
Willey family, were overwhelmed and entirely 
destroyed by an avalanche which poured down 
Mount Willey in 1826, and which avalanche is 
now overgrown by a growth of white birches. 
Far to the South, Chocorua’s sharp peak, rises 
above its neighbours and seems to pierce the 
clouds. 

We were recalled to a vivid idea of the ills of 
life by an army of black flies, which soon found us 
out, and which proceeded at once to business. I 



r 4 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



should say that they numbered several millions 
and had not tasted a tourist for months. A 
waggon load of fashionables just then coming 
from the Crawford house, in “ plugs” &c., we 
recommended them strongly to the consideration 
of the black flies and turned our faces downward. 

After a descent somewhat more rapid than the 
ascent, we again reached the Crawford House, 
and after a short survey of the surroundings? 
again took up our march. Almost immediately 
behind the “ Crawford” the road leads into 
dense forest, and which for the next five miles 
shuts eff the view of the White Mountain ran^e 
which rises on our right, to the S. E., but 
which clears away in two or three places, and 
we catch glorious views of Mounts Washington, 
Muuroe, Jefferson, Adams, and Pleasant, with 
their tremendous scarred and ragged sides rising 
six thousand feet above the brightly sunlit 
green valley, which stretches at our feet, and 
the railroad leading directly up the most promi- 
nent side of Washington. After a five mile 
walk from the Crawford House we came to the 
‘‘Fabyan,” a large new Hotel which accommo- 
dates 450 guests, and has a frontage of 250 feet, 
half a mile further on is the White Mountain 
House. Here we took dinner, and from this the 
road leads to the N. West, along the banks of 
Ammorioosuc River, and onour lefttheFranconia 
Mts. began to grow upon us, as we took leave 
of their White Mountain brethren. For five 
miles we walk through woods, with the Ammo- 
rioosuc on our left, and then arrive at the Twin 
Mountain House. This house has one of the 
most beautiful situations of any in the mountains 
and commands a magnificent view. Here we 
saw the Rev. Henry Ward Beecher, playing 
croquet in his shirt sleeves, and having refreshed 
ourselves with the sight, resumed our weary way. 
It was now about 5 p.m. and we had undertaken 
to reach Bethleham that evening, so settling our 
packs, we moved on rather actively. The 
ignorance of surroundings of the natives of this 
part of the country struck us here rather 
forcibly, as on asking three or four individuals 
as to which of the surrounding mountains was 
Twin Mountain which we knew was one of 
those before us, each one indicated a different 
mountain, after taking some time to make up 



his mind, and reviling the ignorance of our 
former adviser. 

On a shoulder of one of the mountains is a 
curious tumulus, having the exact shape of a 
hay mow, and named such. It must be three 
or four hundred feet above the ground on which 
it stands, is heavily wooded, and as the sun 
shines on it has a very striking appearance. 
Owing to our lingering too long on the banks of 
the river and viewing the mountains the sunset, 
when we were jet four miles from our night’s 
resting place. 



CORRESPONDENCE. 



To Editors McGill Gazette. 

Sirs, 

The pedestrians who favored us in last week’s 
Gazette, with an account of their trip to the 
White Mountains, are, doubtless, lovers of 
tramps : hut we should much prefer that they 
would not trample so ruthlessly upon the Eng- 
lish language. Piompted by a desire to main- 
tain the classical reputation of the Gazette, and 
to spare the feelings of its readers from such 
another assault, we shall endeavor to point 
out a few rules which may be of use to pedest- 
rians, and which cannot be ignored even by 
the “ White Mountain Boys.” We would not 
undertake this duty, were it not that we are 
again about to be favored by another tramp. 

“ I hear the approaching footsteps and hasten 
to the Rescue.” — Josh Billings. 

It is to be regretted,” say the pedestrians 
“ that in this country, both in Canada and (in) 
the States” &c. It is to he regretted that the 
pedestrians, before writing this sentence, had 
not consulted Lindley Murray’s Grammar P. 1 03 
where they would have learned, that,“ when 
the adverb both is followed by a preposition, 
that preposition must be repeated after the 
conjunction and in tLe succeeding part of the 
sentence.” 

In the third line we read, “ where so many 
grand and beautiful spots of both mountain 
and valley scenery.” In this grand and beau, 
tiful clause the word “ both” is redundant ; 
but if the writer insists upon retaining it, the 
clause must read, both of mountain and valley 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



i5 



scenery. In regard to the remainder of this 
compound and complicated sentence, we will 
remark in the words of Junius, “ it will only 
pass without censure, where it passes without 
observation.” 

Inspired by such thoughts. . . . two 

young men left Portland, for North Conway 
by rail, for the purpose of walking the White 
Mountains.’’ Two inspired young men, we 
suppose left Portland by rail for North Conway, 
for the purpose of what ! ! for the purpose the 
inspired writer tells us, “of walking the White 
Mountains. Are w T e to believe these gentle- 
men ? 

Yes, upon their making an affidavit before 
a justice of the peace, that they were inspired. 
We remember reading somewhere of a man mak- 
ing the lame to walk ; but it remained for the 
inspired writers of the 19th century to make 
the Mountains walk. This must be a realiza- 
tion of the great power of faith, which can re- 
move mountains. It should be the desire of 
students, writing for the Gazette, to adopt a 
chaste and elegant style, and not to indulge in 
slang phrases, such as, “ we fell in” with a 
gentleman. The reader is naturally reminded 
of the story of the fox and the goat who fell into 
a well. This gentleman had strange peculiarities. 
He was “ a'gentleman who was inclined to be 
communicative, .... - who was most 

polite at table, (who) seemed to have a chronic 
affection of the left eye, which kept it constantly 
opening and shutting, (which) could place his 
feet so marvelously high on the post of the gal- 
lery, and tip his chair hack so very far, &c., &c. 
A very chronic affection of the left eye, this 
gentleman must have had to affect his feet so 
peculiarly ; butthe most chronic affection is that 
of the pedestrians for bad grammar. 

Blair, in his “ lectures on Rhetoric and Belles 
Lettrcs,” says. The relation which the words 
or numbers of a period, bear to one another, can- 
not be pointed out in English, as in Greek or 
Latin, by means of terminations ; it is ascer- 
tained only by the position in which they stand, 
lienee a capital rule in the arrangement of sen- 
tences is, that the words or members most nearly 
related should be placed in the sentence, as near 
to each other as possible j so as to make their 



mutual relation clearly appear.” As an example 
of the violation of this rule, take Goldsmith’s 
sentence. “ The Greeks, fearing to be sur- 
rounded on all sides, wheeled about and halted, 
with the river on their backs ' ” 

A most illustrative example of the violation 
of Blair’s rule may be found in the following 
sentence by the pedestrians. “Speaking of a 
large dog which they met at the gate, they say, 
having made our peace with him and his master 
we were invited to the kitchen, where we were 
entertained by the master and mistress of the 
large dog, who was very wet, and (who) persisted 
in being very friendly, and (who) in our turn 
amused the children, ever and anon looking out 
of the window at the pouring rain, which showed 
no sign of cessation, and which as it was growing 
late, we decided to brave, and mournfully (to) 
turned our faces again to “ George’s ” hospitable 
house, getting (the house) very wet and ruefully 
thinking, &c., &c.” I leave this sentence with- 
out comment, but will say to the writer in the 
words of Mr. Moon. “ Let your meaning be 
obscure, and no grace of diction, nor any music 
of a well turned period, will make amends to your 
readers lor their being liable to misunderstand 
you.” ' 

J. M. L. 



To the Editors of the Gazette. 

Bear Sirs, 

It is generally stated that it is an Englishman s 
privilege to grumble and I suppose we have 
sufficient English blood among us to be allowed 
this privilege. I am sorry to say that I find 
only too many excuses for grumbling, so I hope 
I may use your columns as a safety valve, and 
thus keep myself from boiling over. 

First let me vent a long growl at the way 
Committees are organised and business carried 
on among the students, by which I am reminded 
of the “l ings” and “corners” of our friends across 
the line. Now it may appear ungrateful to 
write at the very onset anything which may seem 
to be directed against the gentlemen who have 
given their time and services to revive the old 
College Gazette, but it is the measures not the 
men that I growl at. The labours of your 
Committee, I know will not be light. But aa 



i6 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



I must have instances to point to, I take the or- 
ganization of committees for the Gazette and for 
the Athletic Sports. I cannot say how the 
election for the Gazette committee was managed; 
for I was not there, not having heard anything of 
it till a week afterwards. But I can say how it 
was not managed. It was not a College move- 
ment. Notice of the meeting was not posted up. 
The majority if not the whole of the Fourth 
Year’s men, who should I think be first consul- 
ted, knew nothing about it. Therefore I say it 
was not a College movement. 

As to the meeting about the Athletic Sports, 
notice of it was only posted up a few hours 
before it was to take place, giving absentees no 
chance, and giving men no time to prepare a 
ticket or to give in their own names to be voted 
for. The consequence was that about thirty or 
forty were present. One who had been prompt- 
ed beforehand proposed three names, another 
seconded the motion; and before we had time to 
think whether we preferred any others, and to 
judge of the candidates, the motion was carried. 

I confess 1 was amazed , but not liking to vote 
against the candidates without having fresh 
names to substitute, voted neither way. Now 
Sirs, it is this “ hole and corner ” business that 
I would see abolished. It is all very well to talk 
of esprit de corjjs, but that can never be encou- 
raged by consulting the few to the exclusion of 
the many. “ Let everything be done decently 
and in order’’. 

Josh Billings, who sees further into a brick 
wall than most, has said that curiosity had 
twins ; one was Invention (I omit his barbarous 
spelling not of deference to the Faculty) and the 
other was “Poke your nose into every thing.” 
Now I think this latter twin has been much 
abused, and needs petting. Our excellent 
Faculty, I think, showed their affection for this 
when they drew up the courses of subjects 
necessary for B.A. But it seems to me when 
I see one or two names reappearing in every 
committee list, that these one or two Students 
wish to be father, mother, uncle, &c., to poor 
“Poke your nose into every thing,” and to allow 
the profanum vulgus to claim no relationship. 
Now, I think, this is a fatal mistake, for one 
great virtue of these organizations in schools and 



Colleges is the training on a small scale, that they 
give to the men, in business that they may have 
hereafter to conduct publicly. 

But I must pass on, as I wish to edge in 
another little growl or two. I am sorry that you 
seem in your paper to encourage the riotous 
behaviour in the lobby, by your laughing at the 
tearing of Freshmen’s caps and gowns. I don’t 
pretend to know what years the term ‘ Sophs” 
includes, but it is entirely among the first and 
second year Students that the tearing goes on, 
and I should like your paper to take a bolder 
stand, and discourage as far as it can such 
childish behaviour. I agree with you in think- 
ing the matriculation standard too low, and I 
think that this rioting is mainly due to the 
presence among us of boys who should have been 
at school for two years yet. 

I have one little growl, more. In your able 
article on Boarding Houses, you seem to speak 
of the “Theologs” as running the College a little 
too much. As the reference to comfortable houses 
seems to point to the Presbyterian students, 
pardon me if' I remind you that they are by no 
means the only Theologs. though to the uninitia- 
ted it might seem as if they were. But I 
suppose the omission of the word “Presbyterian” 
was a slip. 

My object in this letter is only to point out 
defects, and to growl, but I shall be happy, on 
some future occasion, to suggest remedies. 
Meanwhile, I think, I have made good my claim 
to the title of 

Growler 



COLLEGE SONGS. 

After the University Lecture a procession of 
students was formed which serenaded the 
Professors in Arts. The procession subsequently 
adjourned to Dr. Leach’s Class-Room where 
speeches were made, one of the speakers sug- 
gested that the College songs should be published 
in the Gazette. We will endeavour to carry 
out this idea, and would request all having 
copies of such songs to inform us of the fact, in 
order that we may make the collection as full as 
possible. 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



i7 



The McGill Gazette. 



Monday , November 15th , 1 8jy. 



EDITORS: 



Graduate Editor, R. \V. HUNTINGDON, B.C.L. 



K. H. Hethrington, ’76. 
C. H. Gould, ’77. 

E. Lafleur, 77. 

R. D. McGibbon, ’77 



R. Robertson, ’77. 

A. W. Atwater, ’77 
E. Evans, ’78. 
Holton Wood, ’79. 



CONTENTS. 

Literary. 

Pedestrianism in the' White Mountains. . . 13 



Correspondence '. 14 

College Songs 16 

Editorial. 

Boisterous Conduct 17 

Answers to ‘ ‘ Growler ” . ' 17 

Fair Harvard 18 

Answers to Correspondents 18 

Disputanda QujEdam 19 

University Literary Society 19 

Athletic Sports 20 

Personals 21 

Dicenda, Tacenda 21 

Foot Ball 21 and 22 

Advertisements 23 and 24 



BOISTEROUS CONDUCT. 

It is generally supposed that a student, when 
he passes from the much but (deservedly so) 
abused state of Freshman into the more sedate 
and dignified position of a Sophomore, leaves 
behind him those petty boyish tricks which are 
somewhat excusable in a novice but are un- 
endurable in a Student of the second year. 

We are sorry, however, to see that some mem- 
bers of the present 2 nd year are, if possible, 
more puerile (or infan tile,) in their amusement, 
and more boisterous and noisy in their conduct 
than when they were Freshmen. 

We would ask them in the name of decency 
to cease their unseemly pushing and jostling in 
the lobby letween lectures, and often during 
prayers. The time thus wasted by them might, 
we imagine, be much more profitably spent in 
either attending prayers or else in glancing 
over their notes. We do not intend, however, to 
prescribe an alternative, but merely to point out 
the grievance, and we sincerely trust that the 
men to whom we allude will have sense enough 
to cease at once and forever such sport. 



ANSWER TO GROWLER. 

A correspondent who euphoniously dubs 
himself “ Growler,” sent us a long and unin- 
terrupted grumble, which we publish in another 
part of our issue. We might instantly overwhelm 
Mr. Growler by the quotation, to piv iirinpav 
pgSiov cat 7r avrog lort But as he appears to 
grumble from principle, and as he is evidently 
labouring under a misapprehension with regard 
to some of his grounds of complaint, we shall 
endeavour to answer as briefly as possible, one or 
two of these complaints, which appear to us 
somewhat unjust. While we are only too well 
aware that his strictures on McGill business 
meetings in general, are well merited, we are 
sorry that Mr. Growler attacks with such vehem- 
ence, the organization of the Committee of man- 
agement of the Gazette and of the Athletic sports. 

With respect to the latter Committee, is the 
gentlemanly Growler quite certain that some one 
“who had been prompted beforehand proposed 
three names to be voted on.” If so, the statement 
makes against his own case. For it shows that 
short as was the notice of the meeting, some at 
any rate of those who attended it, found time to 
“ think whom they preferred ” should be elected. 
Why did not our friend of the mighty growl 
think in like manner? 

As to the fact that the meeting was not largely 
attended our Correspondent should not consider 
this as due to the short notice, for he must 
unquestionably have been at many other meetings 
when the attendance was still smaller, although 
public notice of them had preceded them by 
three or four days. 

Our grumbling correspondent also thinks that 
the revival of the College Gazette was not a 
College movement. Now if the College were 
opposed to the movement, it could easily repress 
it. But by making absolutely no remonstrance 
against the Gazette, and by sustaining its first 
issue, the College has proved that it considers 
the Gazette at any rate a College institution if 
not a College movement. 

We are sorry that our correspondent should 
for a moment suppose that we intended by any- 
thing which appeared in our first issue to encour- 
age the frequently very disorderly behaviour in 
the lobby. On the contrary nothing was farther 



i8 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



from oar intention. And before receiving the 
letter from Mr. Growler we had touched upon 
this conduct, in an editorial. 

In conclusion we have to thank our contributor 
for his growls, (for fault-findiug, even though 
the grounds of complaint are in some cases more 
imagined than real can do no harm to any thing 
not deserving of censure and to remind him of 
bis promise to suggest at some future time 
remedies for matters needing reform. 

If he proves as efficient in the capacity of 
adviser, as he has already proved himself in the 
capacity of Growler, we feel confident that 
many of his suggestions will prove of great 
value to McGill. 

FAIR HARVARD. 

The Harvard Foot-ball Team, as every one 
knows, visited the city last month as the guests 
of the Montreal Club- We wish that they had 
been ours, but fate had arranged matters other- 
wise. We were very glad to see them though 
no matter to whom the credit of their visit is 
due. The life of a student is so brief, that event 
which to outsiders would appear but as recent 
acquire in collegiate circles a traditionary claim 
to respect. So it has been, we think, with the 
connection between Harvard and McGill. It is 
not yet two years since the first meeting took 
place between the two Universities, but already 
the tie then formed has become, with us at least, 
one which is entitled to the regard founded upon 
age, as well as upon mutual good feeling. Those 
of us (alas ! how small is the number remaining) 
who were members of the team which visited 
Cambridge, are never likely to forget the recep- 
tion which we then experienced. We went 
there as perfect strangers, we were treated as 
the most intimate of friends ; indeed, it seemed 

as if in a few hours we become so in realitv. 

%/ 

Certain it is that many friendships were then 
formed which yet show no sings of decreasing 
and which we trust may never be less warm than 
at the present time. Nor are our recollections 
of the return visit less delightful ; hospitality is 
a virtue not less pleasant to practice than to 
receive, and though our means were limited, yet 
the universal good-will of every one seemed to 



make up for whatever was lacking in our ability 
to entertain those by whom we were entertained 
so well. Among the more recent visitors we 
met some of the old friends, and made others, 
whose acquaintance, though not of so long date, 
was none the less welcome. As we said, we wish 
that they had been our guests as of old, but it is 
safe to place Montreal’s reputation for hospitality 
in the hands of the Montreal Club. There 
Seem3 to be a certain entente cordiale between 
the cities of Montreal and Boston, as between 
their Universities, which makes the men of both 
fraternize, as the French say, as they would not 
do with the people of any other place. Long may 
it continue ! We trust however, that McGill 
will not allow the annual Harvard Match to 
drop into abeyance, even if a new one is insti- 
tuted, as we hope it will be, between Harvard 
and the Montreal Club. It is one of those very 
good things of which we have decidedly not yet 
had enough. Next spring it will be our turn to 
go to Cambridge, and we hope that the Under- 
graduates and old graduates interested in 
athletics, will not allow pecuniary difficulties to 
stand in the way. Besides, we must attempt to 
recover our laurels, though, for that matter, the 
social amenities of the match made it almost 
more enjoyable to be defeated by our American 
friends, than to be victorious in any other 
contest. But of one thing we may be assured, 
if McGill does revisit the old battle ground on 
Jarvis Field, we will receive the same kind, 
courteous, and cordial treatment that we invaria- 
bly experienced in times past. 

. 

TO CORRESPONDENTS. 

We have received some communications which 
have been written on both sides of the paper en- 
tailing much unnecessary work upon us by our 
being compelled to copy them. In future no 
communication written in this way will be 
noticed. 

We are compelled to decline the communica- 
tion of “ Cummings ” on account of personali- 
ties therein. 

u An Expiring Frog ” has written us com- 
plaining of want of pure air in Dr. Cornish’s 
class room. We hope the matter will be re- 
medied at once. 



TIIE McGILL GAZETTE. 



19 



H. P. We regret that as we have an editorial 
and a letter from a Correspondent both touching 
upon the same subject as you have written on, 
we are unable to publish your article, 
otherwise we would have been very happy to do 
so and we ask you to write again. 

B. C. writes to ask who invited the High 
school boys to be present at the sports. We 
may say that after enquiry we have ascertained 
that it was not the committee but two officious 
freshmen, who with presumption enough for 
two or three ordinary 1st year classes and 
unauthorized by the Committee asked for a half 
holiday for the boys. 

As some difficulty and much controversy has 
arisen from the late sports as to who is or wbo 
is not a bona fide undergraduate of McGill 
University we have decided to open our columns 
for the reception of opinious on this subject. As 
it is matter of much importance we hope to see 
the matter fully discussed and finally settled. 

We have received numerous communications 
which evince on the part of the authors careless- 
ness in composition and looseness of style. We 
would respectfully request our Contributors to 
take some pains with their articles and spare us 
the disagreeable task of rejecting communications 
for the above mentioned reasons, which would 
otherwise be inserted. We also require the 
author s name and address not for publication 
but as a guarantee of good faith. 

DlSPUTANDA QUAF.DAM IN PROXIMA ARTIUM 
FACULTATIS CONVENTION E. 

j. — An alicui bono sit in Collegio Facultas. 

2. — An toleranrla sit ilia alumnorum licentia, qu 1 
professoribus agnomina parum reverentia affingunt, 
tam e loco natali deprensa quam vulgari cognominum 
contractione facta ; e. g, ‘ Patricius’ sive * Pat’ (vox 
insula viridi reddens), ‘Billy,’ ‘Freddy,’ et permulta 
alia. 

3. — Num asquum sit scribas Collegio adhmrentes, 
redificia collegiaria occupare, cum alumni domos cibum 
nefandum preebere licenciatos habitare cogantur. (Quan- 
ta enim ironia Mater ‘ alma’ vocatur, qune filios aliis 
alendos committit !) 

4. — An alumni minorus (apte, ‘ Freshmen designati) 
janitori ejusque adjutoribus titulum ‘Mister tiibucre 
deberent. 

5. — An decorum sit eosdem minores gerere braccas 
pueriles quas vernacula ‘ knickerbockers vocamus, et ad 



Collegium ‘ laevo suspensi loculos tabulamque Iacerto’ 
mane ambulare. 

6. — Annon cum alumni carmen ‘ Gaudeamus’ ululant, 
distichon istum impurum ; ‘ Vivant omnes virgines &c., 
supprimi oportercL 

7. — Num professori Chemeiae potestas sit danda, 
collegium tam feedis odoribus iraplere ut alumni credant 
sese finem mundi apprehendere. 



UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY. 

The Annual Meeting of the University Liter- 
ary Society was held at its Booms on Friday, 
the 29th October. Since at this meeting the 
officers for the ensuing year are elected and 
changes in the constitution of the Society are 
discussed, the members usually attend in large 
numbers. Such was the case with the Annual 
Meeting of 1875. . 

The undergraduates, who had previously deci- 
ded upon a Ticket, met at the College, and 
proceeded en masse to the rooms of the Society. 

Much objections has always been raised to the 
U. L. Society, on the ground that the under- 
graduates have too little influence in the 
management of its affairs. The proceedings of 
the late Annual meeting should forever silence 
the calumniators of the Society, since the 
Undergraduate ticket was carried in its entirety, 
After some preliminary business ^the Secretary 
and Treasurer handed in their reports, which 
showed the Society to be in a flourishing condi- 
tion in every way, except as relates to pecuniary 
matters. The meeting then proceeded to the 
election of officers, when the following gentlemen 
were elected by large majorities. 

President. — N. W. Tenholme, M.A., B.C.L., 
IstjVice-President. — M. L. S. Lonergan,B.C.L,, 
2nd Vice President . — H. H. Lyman. 

Treasurer. — J - S. Hall, B.A., B.C.L., 

Cor. Secretary — R. W. Huntington, B.C.L., 
Recording Secretary. — R. Robertson. 

Council. 

D. McMaster, B.C.L., A. McGoun, 

M. Hutchinson, B.C.L., R. D. McGibbon, 

W. S. Walker, B.C.L., T. N. Duffy, 

Several unimportant changes in the constitu- 
tion were then proposed and discussed. 

A motion was made having for its object the 
admission into the Society of Non-University 



70 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



men, but it was lost, owing to the strenuous 
opposition of the Undergraduates. 

The business of the meeting having been 
concluded, the President D. Me Master, B.C.L., 
made a neat address upon leaving the chair, 
after which the meeting adjourned. 



The Annual Athletic Sports of the 

\ x 

University. 

These Sports came off Tuesday, Nov. 2nd. 
Though rather late in the season, and despite 
many ominous prophecies of bad weather, the 
day was favourable for such contests. In the 
morning there was a large attendance of students, 
and much interest manifested in the various 
events. The programme was as follows. 

I. 

• Kicking Foot-ball . — For this there were 13 entries 
and after close competition E. T. Taylor, won the medal 
which was kindly presented by the Montreal Foot-ball 
Club (in appreciation of our inviting them to practice 
with us) by a kick of 147 feet. A. D. Taylor second 
146 ft. 10 in. 

II. 

Broad Jump. — Two Competitors only, appeared for 
this, Sproule and Howey, the latter gentleman winning, 
Distance 11 ft. 1£ in. 

III. 

Throwing Weight. — (56 lbs.) Won by Lang, 16 ft. in 

IV. 

Running Hop Step and Jump . — Won by Baillie, 40 
feet 8 in. Carman second, 40 ft. 3 in. 

V. 

Running High Jump . — Won easily by Arnaron, 5 ft. 

VI. 

Standing High Jump . — This caused a great deal of 
excitement and the accomplishment of the winner Mr. 
Howey, is one of which we may well be proud. After a 
very close competition between Arnaron, Metcalf and 
ike winner, the latter gentleman cleared 4 ft. 11 in 

VII. 

Throwing Cricket Ball. — 1st. Boudreau, 2nd. McDou- 
gall, the distance of the winning throws was not taken. 

VIII. 

Throwing at wicket . — Won by Clements. 

This concluded the morning’s Programme. 

afternoon. 

The grounds presented an exceedingly gay 
appearance. The Band of the Victoria Rifles 
discoursed sweet music, and the spectators 
among whom were many ladies, seemed to enjoy 
the competitions. Punctually at 2.30 the bell 
rang for the 



MILS RACE. 

For this Cup. Scriver, Casswell and Mullen fyled 
appearances. Mullen lead off and was never passed 
during the race, Scriver, dropped off on the second, and 
Casswell on the third quarter, leaving Mullen an easy 
victor, time 5 m. 23 sec. The time may be accounted for 
by the fact that the track was in rather a bad condition^ 



HURDLE RACE, 

was won easily by Baillie. Next came the 

HALF MILE, 

for members of the Rifle Corps, which was a walk-over 
for Casswell. lor the 

THREE LEGGED RACK. 

Nine oiuples started, won by Baillie and Arnaron. The 
100 YARDS IN HEATS. 

came next. For this Henderson, Rogers, Taylor, Evans, 
Arnaron and McKully, entered. Rogers won easily 
taking the first two heats in 11 and 11£ sec. The next 
event was the 



QUARTER MILE CHAMPIONSHIP. 

Rogers, Arnaron and Mullen, toed the scratch. The first 
mentioned gentleman was the favorite and started with 
a strong lead, Mullen second, in this order they con- 
tinued until on the home-stretch, Rogers fell and 
Mullen who had been gradually gaining burst in a 
winner. Cnly two appeared for the 

STEEPLE CHASE. 

Baillie and Clements. Both took the the 1st water jump 
together and until Clements baulked at the 13 ft. ditch, 
on the way home it was doubtful as to who would win. 

This finished the afternoon’s programme and 
the guests and students repaired to the Molson 
Hall, where Mrs, Dawson distributed the prizes. 
Principal Dawson being called for, made a few 
remarks which were greeted with applause. 
Cheers for Mrs. Dawson, the Judges, and the 
Queen, and the sports of ’75 were over. Alto- 
gether the meeting was very successful, and we 
were glad to observe that that Faculty feeling 
which was formerly shown on these occasions 
was wanting. 

The following were the 



COMMITTEE OF MANAGEMENT. 



President. — G. 
Secretary. — A. 
Treasurer . — A. 
A. D. Taylor, | 

R. W. Powell. | 

The Judges were : 



B. Ward. 

W. Atwater. 

F. Ritchie. 

R. D. McGibbon. 
R. B. Rogers. 



Lieut. Col. Frank Bond, P. W. R. 

Prof. T. G. Roddick, M. D. 

R. M. Eedaile, Esq., Capt. M. F. C. 

Starter, C. H. McLeod, B. A., Sc. 

Time-keeper, J. g. Hall, B A., 



THE McGILL gazette. 



21 



COLLEGE ITEMS. 

The University Rifle Company paraded last 
Saturday morning for target practice under 
command of Lieut. Chubb. The Company is 
now full and numerous, applicants for admission 
have been refused on this account. 

The Glee Club met last week and elected the 
following officers : — Dr. Harrington, President, 
Houghton, ’79, Conductor, Newnham, ’77, Secy- 
Treasurer, Dawson, ’78, and Fraser, 77, mem. 
bers of Committee. We understand the Club 
intends to hold one or two Concerts during the 
winter. 

A wretched Freshman remarked that the 
reason there was only one entry for the Rifle 
Company Race at the sports, was that the 
members are ‘saving’ themselves for the Guibord 
burial. 

The University Lecture was delivered Nov. 
11th, by Hon. C. Dunkin, M. A., D.C.L., 
Subject, “ Agricultural Education in connection 
with Universities.” 

The “ Canada Gazette” of last week contains 
the appointment of S. C. Chubb, as Lieutenant 
of the College Company. 

The ‘‘ Finals” in medicine have prohibited 
the use by the Meds, of a certain hitherto 
populary refrain which commences with an 
interjection, followed by the first personal pro- 
noun in the objective case, and which subse- 
quently treats of an abnormal condition of a 
part of the human frame, and the anguish of 
maternal relatives on the discovery of the same. 

DICENDA, TACENDA. 

Greek (translated) : “As many as were taken 
in the war.” Prof.— “ No ‘the’ in my book.” 
Student — “ So ?— What text have you ?”— 
Ex. — Cornell Era. 

A Freshman instigated by a Senior spent two 
hours trying to translate the mnemonic lines 
Barbara celarent <fcc., under the impression that 
it was one of Ennius’ Epigrams. He had to 
give up as his dictionary did not give archaic 
forms. 

An Oxford Undergraduate being asked to 
state the character of the Apostles, said he did’nt 
know much about them, but had read somewhere 



that “ the lot fell on Matthias,” his opinion was 
that it was an exceedingly cowardly proceeding. 

The following is a version of “ Persicos Ode ’ 
not so good as that of Shirley Brooks but on a 
different plan : 

Persicos odi puer apparatus. 

Bring me a chop and a couple of potatoes. 
While we are dining care should not await us. 

Spoiling our glory. 

Simplice myrto nihil allabores. 

All ostentation a confounded lore is 
Mutton that’s old I 
Port that sound at core is, 

Suit, Whig and Tory. 

St. James Magazine. 



PERSONALS. 

’74 J. W. Spencer, B.A., Sc. has returned to 
Montreal, he has been doing mining work near 
Lake Superior. 

’74 G. E. Robertson, B. A. Sc. and John Page, 
’75, are engaged on the Welland Canal. 

’75 It gives us pleasure to record the marriage 
of W. M. McKibbin, B. A., which occured Oct. 
14th. 

’74 Jas. Craig, B. A., is studying law in Ottawa. 

’73 Passengers on bo ard the Brazilian Packet 
“ Archimedes’’ from Liverpool who are afflioted 
with nausea or other maritime ailments are en- 
trusted to the tender mercies of W.T. Ward, M.D. 

’75 George Ross, B.A., Sc. is practising his 
profession in Toronto. 

foot ball. 

We had intended to say a few words in this 

issue apon a subject which has afforded ground 
for much comment and discussion lately in foot- 
ball circles. We allude to those relics of a by- 
gone age, when & Football match was invariably 
attended by broken legs, collar bones, and ribs or 
some other equally fascinating accidents, viz., 
scrimmages. We need offer not the slightest 
apology for receding from our intention to strongly 
advocate the abolition or at least modification of 
these, in as much as the match on Saturday 23rd 
ult. between Harvard and Montreal proved much 
more conclusivly than we could have hoped to do, 
that not only the game is much prettier and 



22 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



scientific without these “ pushing conflicts” but 
that a side which avoids them has great advantage 
over one which places every man in these scrim- 
mages. We hope to see no more of these in our 
games. 

International match, harvard vs. 

MONTREAL. 

A match at Foot-ball had been arranged 
between Harvard and the Foot-ball Association 
of Canada, but unfortunately eight players from 
Ontario were unable to be present and so the 
burden (or rather honour) of fighting for Canada 
devolved almost entirely on the Montreal Club. 
We shall not enter into a long description of the 
game, suffice it to say that Harvard won the match 
by two goals and one touch down to nothing on 
the part of Montreal. The Harvard team played 
exceedingly well together and where ever the 
ball chanced to be sent, there were the crimson, 
shirted players to receive it and generally to take 
a good long journey with it. The Ilarvards 
excelled in passing the ball from one to another, 
and in running and dodging. The Montreal 
team had evidently been chosen with a regard to 
weight and their running was not to be compared 
to that of their opponents. 

The teams dined together at the Carleton 
after the match and a most enjoyable evening 
was spent. 

We undei stand that the Foot-ball Club intend 
importing costumes of the College colours. 

“Town vs. Gown” Match. 



P. D. Ross, ’77, Science. 

J. Scriver, ’78, 

L. Campbell, '79, Arts. 

J. M. McDougall, ’77, Law. 

H- Abbott, ’78, “ 

Capt. E. T. Taylor, ’78, Arts. 

Messrs. Russell and Redpath, acted as umpires. 

High School, vs. Freshmen- 

This Annual match was played Nov 4tb. and 
for the first time for five or six years the 
Freshmen were victorious winning by one goal. 




MEET 



SATURDAY, NOV. 20, 



AT 



010 ST. CATHERINE ST. 

DEBATE-SUBJECT : 

" foes ow^ wort lo flit tjfyijs 

Kjait to the Rories ? ’’ 



This match which has caused much interest 
and speculation as to the result, came off Nov. 6th 
after three half hours’ hard play, time was 
called, Montreal having won by one goal dropped 
from the field of play by Gough. 

The following were the Gown players. 

A. D. Taylor, B.A., ’78, (Law.) 

R. B. Rogers, ’77, Science. 

E. A. Evans, ’78, Arts. 

R. D. McGibbon, ’77, “ 

R. Robertson, ’77, “ 

A. J. Watson, ’76, “ 

R. Dawson, ’78, “ 

J. A. Casswell, ’77, Science. 

A. J. Clements, ’77, “ 



The McGili. Gazette is published fort- 
nightly during the College Year by the under- 
graduates of the University. 

Terms : $i per annum ; single copy, io cts. 
For sale at Drysdale’s, Dawson’s & Hill’s. 
Subscriptions and Advertisements to be sent 
to the Secretary-Treasurer, McGill College. 
Contributions should be directed to the 

Editors, McGill College. 

/ 

The name of the author should accompany 
the contributions. 

E. Lafleur, Secy Treas. 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



23 



DEVLIN'S 

1 

Hat and Fur 

DEPOT, 

416 Notre Dame Street, 

i 

3vro]sr r ri=?,~Fi a t, 

COHEN & LOPEZ, 

IMPORTERS OF 

FINEST BRANDS OF GENUINE 

gatana djigars, 

MEERSCHAUM PIPES, 
C. B. D. and other varieties of Briar Pipes, 

Russian and Spanish Cigarettes, fyc. 

PRESENTATION PIPES 

Silver Mounted Sc Engraved to Order. 

CORNER PLACE DIMES 4 ST, JAMES ST„ 

ALSO 

231 ST. JAMES STREET , 

OPPOSITE MESSRS. SAVAGE & LYMAN. 

G. BISHOP & CO., 

Engravers, 

J^ITHOGRAPHERS AND jpRINTERS, 

109 ST. JAMES STREET, 

MONTREAL 



Gents Furnishing Goods. 

Students will find it greatly to their advantage to go to 

FRANK B. STREET, 

St. James Street (adjoining Wesleyan Church) 

FOR THEIR 

SHIRTS, COLLARS, CUFFS, 

Underclothing, Scarfs, Gloves, Handkerchiefs, 

UMBRELLAS. CANES, &c. 

Only the best goods kept, and one price charged. 

FRANK B. STREET. 

WILLIAM SAMUEL 

3S7 NOTES DAMS STREET. 

AN EXTENSIVE STOCK OF 

fa {oats, | Jl8V$ 

NOW ON HAND. 

College Trenchers, Arts and Medical Hat Ribbon, 
and a varied and extensive Stock of 

SILK, FELT AND OTHER HATS, 

in their Season. 

367 NOTRE DAME ST. 




NOTE BOOKS, 

AND 

Stationery of all kinds, 



IN GREAT VARIETY, SUITABLE FOR 

MEDICAL AND OTHER COLLEGE STUDENTS, 

ALSO THE BOOKS USED IN 

McEachran's Veterinary College , 

HILL’S LIBRARY, 

666 DORCHESTER ST. 



24 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 




FINE ASSORTMENT 

Standard Library Books, 

LATEST EDITIONS 

ALWAYS IN STOCK, 

BOOKS FURI1SHED TO ORDER PROMPTLY. 

Catalogues Mailed Free. 

DRYSDALE & CO., 

BOOKSELLERS & STATIONERS, 

MONTREAL. 



McGill College Text Books 



Dawson Bros. 

Keep always on hand a full supply of all the 
Text Books in use at the College, 

- . jl 

ALSO - 

i 

STATIONERY IN ALL VARIETY, 



STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 
STUDENTS’ POCKET INK BOTTLES 

AND 

NO r lE PAPER AND ENVELOPES 
Stamped with the University Die for the use of Students, 
FOR SALE AT 

159 ST. vT^IMIIES ST 



SUBSCRIBE TO 

THE McGILL GAZETTE 



GO TO 

I95| ST. JAMES STREET, 

IF YOU WISH 

TTZE^ST-CTj^SS 

PHOTOGRAPHS, 

* f 

AT A 

REASONABLE PRICE. 

J. G. PARKS, 

PHOTOGRAPHER. 

. . -J. - 

THE 

fmiMtii ||wi mi j>nftvM (jo., 

SHERBROOKE, QUEBEC. 

The Subscribers are now prepared to take 
orders for the preparations of this Company, 
consisting of — 

PRESERVED PROVISIONS, In Tins 
ASSORTED SOUPS, in Tins 
POTTED MEATS, in Tins 
SALTED and SMOKED MEATS 
SAUSAGES in Tins and Skin 

And Sundry other DELICACIES, suitable for 
the Breakfast and Supper Table. 

McG. & B. can confidently recommend these 
Goods as equal and, in some cases, superior to 
the imported, and prices are much lower. 

Full particulars in Price Lists, which may be 
had on application. 

McGIBBON & BAIRD, 

SOLE AGENTS, 

ITALIAN WAREHOUSE, 

22i ST. JAMES ST. 



ADVERTISE IN 

THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



Printed by J. C. Becket, 658 tt 660 Craig Street. 



