(VicGlbb FORTNIGHTfey 

A Fortnightly Journal of Literature, University Thought and Event. 

Vol. IV. MONTREAL, OCTOBER 1 6, 1895. No. 1. 




* EDITORIAL BOARD * 



Editor-in-chief — Robert T. Mullin (Law *96). 

Secretary — J. C. Robertson (Arts ’96). 

Harri Dell (Comp. Med. and Vet. Sc. *96). Wm. McDougall (Sc. ’96). 

W. B. Mow att, B.A. (Med. *96). Miss W. J. Pitcher (Donalda '96. 



* BUSINESS BOARD & 



S. G. Archibald (Arts *97;, Chairman. 

Edgar N. Armstrong, B.A. (Law *97). Miss M. Hutchinson (Donalda *96). 
Wm. Proderick (Med. '96). R. A. Bell (Sc. *97). 

J. J. McCarrey (Comp. Med. and Vet. Sc. '96). 



I he McGill Fortnightly is published by the Students of the University 
on the Wednesday of every second week during the College Session. 

The annual subscription is $1.00, payable strictly in advance. Remittance to 
be made to the Chairman of the Business Board, 113 McKay Street, Montreal. 
Single copies may be obtained at Wm. Drysdale & Co.*s, E. M. RenouPs, Cyrus 
Ashford’s, Chapman's and W. Foster Brown's, Booksellers. Price, 10 cents. 

Address Contributions to Editor-in-Chief, 105 St. Hubert Street, Montreal. 



EDITORIAL COMMENTS. 



SALUTATORY. 

With this issue the Fortnightly resumes its cir- 
culation among the students of McGill. We feel that 
it will be a source of some gratification to those enter- 
prising spirits who established this journal upon its 
present basis four years ago, to know, that since it has 
passed out of their hands, and they out of the current 
of University life, it has not ceased to prosper, and 
now, with every prospect of success, enters upon its 
fourth volume. This has been mainly owing to the 
loyal support of the University students and the kind- 
ness of those friends who have from time to time 
spoken to them in “divers tones” through its col- 
umns. 

It has been suggested that a University like McGill 
could very well publish two journals : one to re- 
flect the severer thought of the University, and the 
other in a lighter vein, and to depend entirely upon 
the students for literary support. We concur in this 
suggestion. Until the way is made clear, however, 
for the establishment of such another journal, it 
remains for the FORTNIGHTLY to mirror college 
thought and life alone, and to meet the present exi- 



gencies as best it can. Obviously there are difficul- 
ties, and these the present editors fully appreciate. 
They hope, however, to drift to neither extreme, but 
to produce, if possible, a bright and readable journal, 
entertainingly instructive to the student, and one in 
which he can feel he has a personal interest; and they 
aim not to recede from the literary standard so hap- 
pily set by their predecessors in 1892. 

The students are invited to contribute to these 
columns. The Fortnightly is their paper. From 
this point of view we are led to believe that this 
paper has been ill appreciated in the past. Yet, we 
conceive it is one of perhaps the two best institutions 
carried on by the students in immediate connection 
with their work. In the Undergraduates Literary 
Society the student may learn to speak readily and 
forcibly our glorious English speech, and here may 
he not acquire some skill in writing it. The impor- 
tance of this matter was touched upon by Professor 
Callendar at last Convocation, and we cannot refrain 
from quoting him : — 

“ But there is no language,” said he,“ either living or 
dead, which in importance can for one moment com- 
pare with our mother tongue. It is the English lan- 
guage that you are most in danger of neglecting,— the 
language in which you have to speak, and write, and 
think, and the neglect of which will cost far more 
seriously than all the rest. Not only is English your 
mother tongue, but it is also the greatest and most 
widespread language in all the earth, if we believe, 
statistically, that ‘at no very distant future date Eng- 
lish will become the universal language of the world.’ 
Those who have literary and political ambitions, and 
who wish to command the largest audiences for all 
time, must speak and write English. To the lawyer, 
the literary man, the engineer, a knowledge of his 
own language, and the ability to write it correctly 
and clearly, is of paramount importance. Clear reason- 
ing is impossible without clear expression, and with- 
out clear expression no engineer can possibly be 
worthy of the name.” 

This language was addressed particularly to the 
Science students; but we trust the students in all 
branches will see its force and practical bearing. 

Concluding, we would not forget the Freshmen. 
We extend to them a hearty welcome to the classes 
of all Faculties. We know they will enter enthusi- 



2 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



astically upon their college life, and we hope they will 
support loyally our college institutions. We invite 
them, too, to co-operate with us and all senior students 
in support of our College paper, both by subscription 
and literary contribution. 



OUR NEW PRINCIPAL. 

In this issue of the Fortnightly, we wish, on 
behalf of the students of M cGill University, to ex- 
tend a most hearty welcome to our newly-appointed 
Principal, Dr. Peterson. It is a matter for congratu- 
lation, not only on the part of the students of this 
University and of those who have the interests of 
McGill most closely at heart, but also on the part of 
the general body of the people of Canada, to whom 
higher education cannot but be of interest, that a 
man of Dr. Peterson’s acknowledged scholarship, 
energy and tact has been selected to fill this most 
important position. McGill’s past history has proved 
very clearly that upon the Principal depends in great 
measure the success and fame of the institution ; and 
in view of this fact, the advantages derived from the 
choice of a scholar of Old Country reputation are 
obvious. This reputation he has acquired not only 
as a student and administrator, but also as an editor 
of classical literature. The outlines of his student 
career are by this time no doubt familiar to all. 

He matriculated at the University of Edinburgh 
from the Royal High School of the same place in 
the year 1872, and when, in due season, the time for 
graduation came round, his name headed the list of 
Honors in Classics. As he was then only eighteen 

years of age, — too young to receive his degree, he 

studied in the meantime for a term in the University 
of Gottingen, the Alma Mater of Bismarck, and there 
made a peisonal acquaintance with German methods 
of study and German University life. He next be- 
came a scholar of Corpus Christi College, Oxford 
holding what we term a scholarship of the annual 
value of £100. In the course of the first session he 
gained the Ferguson Scholarship in Classics, which 
was open to graduates from all the Scottish Univer- 
sities, and a priori may be assumed to have been no 
easy prize. Shortly afterwards, he won a Fellow- 
ship in the University of Edinburgh, and thus, hold- 
ing at the same time no less than three scholarships 
in separate institutions of learning, f or a period of 
two years, he enjoyed from this source an annual 
income of about $1,500. After graduating a t 
Oxford with Honors in Classics, Dr. Peterson receiv 
ed an invitation from his old teacher, Professor 
beller of Edinburgh University, to become his assis- 
tant in Classics. Although he had entertained the 
idea of adopting Law as a profession, and had en 
tered as a student of the Inner Temple, he accepted 
the invitation, but without any intention of devoting 



his life to teaching. When he had been there one 
session, the new College at Dundee was founded, 
and being advised to apply for the Chair of Latin and 
at the same time for the Principalship, Dr. Peterson, 
at the age of twenty-five, suddenly found himself at 
the head of University College, Dundee. For thir- 
teen years he performed the administrative duties 
devolving upon him faithfully and well. To quote 
Dr. Sinclair, who proposed “Our Guest ”at a dinner 
given on the occasion of Dr. Peterson’s leaving Dundee, 
‘their academic history during that period had been 
one of progress, development and expansion, and on 
every page of it could be found a record of Principal 
Peterson’s devotion to the best educational interests 
of the whole community.’ 

In 1891 Dr. Peterson published an edition of the 
Tenth Book of Quintilian’s Institutionis Oratories , 
with introductory essays and notes, which has atract- 
ed much attention among Classical scholars. Besides 
others, Prof. A. S. Wilkins of Manchester, with whose 
edition of Horace’s Epistles Arts students are no 
doubt familiar, has reviewed it. Nothing could be 
more gratifying to an editor than his summary. “ It 
is a work of great industry, of sound judgment and 
of ripe scholarship, a valuable contribution to a de- 
partment which has been too much neglected by 
English scholars, and it deserves a hearty and grate- 
ful welcome.” 1 his was followed in 1892 by a shorter 
edition of the same book, intended for the use of 
Colleges and Schools. Its object was to popularize 
Quintilian, as well as to admit of the introduction to 
College courses of study, a valuable text-book for 
class-reading and also a manual of Greek and Roman 
Literature. In the following year appeared a 
brother book to the edition of Quintilian, the revised 
text of Tacitus’ Dialogue De Oratoribus, with a 
copious introduction and valuable critical and ex- 
planatory notes. The difficult nature of the task 
may in some measure be appreciated, when we know 
that from the time of the discovery of the manuscript 
in the fifteenth century, German scholars, and others 
as well, had been engaged in an exceedingly ver- 
bose dispute as to the authorship of the work. Year 
by year the quantity of matter written in regard to 
the question had been piling up, and each yea*, as it 
passed, instead of exercising the prerogative usually 
ascribed to time, seemed to be bringing to light fresh 
information, which required fresh discussion. All 
this material Dr. Peterson has carefully weighed, and 
p acing t ic arguments pro and con one beside the 
o ter, has very satisfactorily vindicated his own posi- 
1011, and aided materially in the solution of the pro- 

r .. e ' n ' , P « ter son's latest work is a translation of 
Ciceros fro Cluentio, into idiomatic English. Ac- 
company ing this are introductory essays and ex- 
planatory notes. 







\V. PETERSON, M.A., LL.D. 



Supplement to the “McGill Fortnightly.” 



DESBARATS <& CO., ENGRAVERS ANO PRINTERS 





McGill fortnightly. 



3 



Thus, with a career as a student such as few scho- 
lars can boast of, with an exceptionally wide and 
varied knowledge of educational methods in Ger- 
many and Great Britain, with thirteen years’ experi- 
ence as Principal of an Old Country University, and 
with an established reputation as an editor of Classi- 
cal Literature, we may well feel proud of him who 
has been chosen to fill the most honorable position 
in what we students like to term the first of Canadian 
Universities. We have great pleasure in presenting 
to our readers with this issue an excellent portrait of 
Dr. Peterson. 



THE LATE DR. CORNISH. 

Those students who assembled at Convocation of 
the united P'aculties last April, and saw and heard 
Doctor Cornish, could not have imagined then that it 
was for the last time. So, however, it proved to be. 
The news of Dr. Cornish’s death, which occurred on 
the 17th of August last, must have come with the force 
of 3 personal bereavement to the students of this 
University, not only those actually attending classes, 
but to all ol i students who sat under him and who 
are now widely scattered over the whose continent. 

Dr. Cornish enjoyed in an unusual degree the es- 
teem — we might say, the love, — of his students. His 
long connection with the University, and the deep 
interest he always manifested in his students gave 
him a place in their confidence and regard, accorded, 
perhaps, to none other, excepting Sir William him- 
self. 

Dr. Cornish practically died in harness. His resig- 
nation came into effect only at the expiration of last 
session. In a few months he had passed away. He 
still lives, however, in the memory of his students scat- 
tered everywhere, and his influence through them will 
be insensibly felt in all departments of life in which 
they may be found. 

In another column will be found an extended 
notice of Dr. Cornish’s life and work, from the pen of 
Professor Warriner, an old student and co-worker, 
to which it is only necesary to direct the reader. 



THE LAW FACULTY. 

Lectures in the Faculty of Law have commenced 
this year under better conditions than heretofore. 
The Faculty’s old habitation in the Fraser Institute 
has been vacated for more commodious quarters in 
the East Wing. Sir William’s old home has conse- 
quently undergone such a complete transformation 
as to be hardly recognizable by its former occupant. 
The result is several fine lecture rooms, a large read- 
ing room, a small students’ room, and on the ground 



floor new and larger offices for the Secretary of the 
University all fitted out in the most modern style. 
The Law Library has been installed under the sky- 
light. 

The advantages flowing from this change in better 
accommodation and increased facilities for good work 
will far outweigh any inconvenience which the extra 
distance from their offices to the new lecture rooms may 
entail on professors and students. And now we are 
all grouped around the mother-seat. These improve- 
ments have been made at the expense of ten thou- 
sand dollars, or thereabout, and are, we understand, 
another evidence of the deep interest evinced in the 
science of Law in this Province by Mr. W. C. Mac- 
donald. That that solicitation has been, and will be, 
rewarded by the work done in the Faculty of Law, 
there can be no doubt. With the thorough course 
of study prescribed, the different systems to be mas- 
tered, and the exposition of some of the ablest jurists 
in the Province, a high standard of legal education 
may be expected to characterize the future English 
bar of this Province. 

It is a source of the greatest satisfaction to the stu- 
dents, and especially to those in the senior years, to 
find that Dr. Trenholme is continuing his lectures 
this session, despite the disquieting newspaper rumors 
of last spring, that he was about to retire from 
active work in the Faculty. Mingled with this feeling 
is no doubt an element of selfishness in the case of 
those who have the bar examination immediately in 
view, and who may well be congratulated in having 
during their last session the advantage of the lectures 
of the Dean of the Faculty of Law. 

The Law students will be welcomed in their new 
home by the students of all Faculties ; and it is to be 
hoped that better knowledge of each other and fuller 
co-operation together in University affairs may not be 
the least important of the benefits flowing from the 
change. 



THE COMING CONCERT. 

Every effort is being put forth to make the coming 
Glee Conceit a complete success. It promises to 
mark an epoch in the history of Theatre celebrations 
in McGill, not from the singular character of the 
entertainment alone, but also from the fact that on the 
night of the 25th will be realized at last the dream of 
every McGill student, of a meeting together of the 
students of the three P'aculties, with their brethren of 
'the illustrious Faculty of Medicine in one grand Uni- 
versity celebration. The Medical students have 
always felt keenly on the subject of a Faculty Theatre 
Night. Hitherto it has been one of the events 
of their year, and owing to their numbers and fine 
organization, perhaps not the least pleasurable event — 



4 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



certainly one that has always been energetically sup- 
ported and invariably attended with rare success. 
But in view of the novelty of the entertainment to be 
given on the night of the 25th, and the undoubtedly 
high compliment paid us by the presence of so many 
fellow-students from two great American Universi- 
ties, it was resolved to meet them as a unit, with a 
University welcome, nothing less being worthy of 
ourselves and them. And in the meantime the cords 
that have drawn us apart are slackened, and we are 
united with ourselves. 

Nothing could be more admirable than the spirit 
displayed by the Faculty of Medicine when the 
matter came up for discussion on Thursday last. 
While the students are permeated with such a true 
University spirit, there is no fear for “ Old McGill.” 

Not only was it decided, almost unanimously, that 
all Faculties should co-operate together on this occa- 
sion, but that they should always do so. Nothing now 
remains but for every man to turn out. The various 
committees will do their work well. Let us have a 
glorious day and a brilliant procession. 

The Fortnightly welcomes in advance our fellow- 
students from Yale and Princeton. They will find 
McGill when they come united to receive them, nor 
will they have cause, we apprehend, to complain of 
the warmth and genuineness of the welcome that 
awaits. And the McGill student (if he feels well) 
will not be slow or cold in showing his appreciation 
of the musical treat which is undoubtedly in store 
for him (as to which we invite the reader’s attention 
to Mr. Carters letter to be found elsewhere), for he 
has a pair of stout lungs and a warm heart, proxi- 
mity to a higher latitude and a little more ice and 
snow (in the winter time) notwithstanding. 

At the moment of writing we learn that the Sports 
will be held on the M. A. A. A. grounds instead of on 
the campus as heretofore. This will give better faci- 
lities for a good day’s sport and will no doubt be 
satisfactory to all. 



The Fortnightly will hereafter appear on Wed- 
nesday instead of Friday. We think this chana e 
will meet with the approval of the students. For- 
merly many papers were lost by being sent to the 
buildings on Friday afternoon after the students had 
dispersed from lectures. By special arrangement with 
the publishers, we will be able to include the sporting 
events of Saturday in the ensuing Wednesday’s issue 



CONTRIBUTIONS. 

PASSED AWAY. 

Rev. George Cornish, LL.D., died August 

17, 1895. 

But a line in a daily paper 

Thousands of eyes would see, 

And careless pass the record by 
That gives such pain to me. 

Yet our lives had drifted far apart,— 

Mine at my ingle side ; 

And his, — who, I read in the Star to day, 

On August 17th died.” 

And ours was a quiet liking, 

A simple, friendly bond ; 

It was pleasant to meet and light to part, 

And never a thought beyond. 

Yet as I read those words to-day, 

Through a sudden mist of tears 

The fair, open face, and the pleasant eyes 
Gleamed out through the cloud of years. 

The world goes up and the woild goes down, 

And the young succeed the old, 

And the April sunshine gilds the buds 

That spring from the churchyard mould. 

And eyes that of old have answered mine 
Will sadden as mine have done, 

As they glance down the list some day and read 
That my earthly race is run. 

Well, I scarce can frame a kindlier wish 
Than that every lip may say, 

“ God rest his soul ! ” as earnestly 
As I breathe it for his to-day. 

H. M. 



THE REV. GEORGE CORNISH, I.L.D. 

In the death of Dr. Cornish, which took place in 
this city on the i;th of August last, McGill loses one 
of its oldest and most devoted friends, one who not 
only won the esteem and gratitude of a whole genera- 
tion of students as Professor of Classics, but who also 
in every way, and to the utmost of his ability, de- 
lighted to serve the manifold interests of this Uni- 
versity. Nor were his labors confined to McGill 
only. He was actively interested in the general work 
of education in this City and Province. For many 
years he rendered great service to the Montreal 
Iranch Bible Society as its secretary, and was at his 
death a vice-president of the Parent Society in Eng- 
land, while to all the interests of the Congregation!) 
denomination, of which he was a member, his learn- 
mg wisdom and pity were most generously devoted. 

Of his connection with this University no one is 
more competent to speak than is Sir William Dawson, 
who is fully cognizant of it from the beginning, and 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



5 



to his kindness I am indebted for the following notes, 
which I am sure will be read with great interest by 
all. They are a part of the history of McGill. Sir 
William says : — 

“ The Rev. Dr. Cornish came to British America 
from England, in connection with a projected college 
in the western part of Nova Scotia, which, after an 
ephemeral existence, collapsed from want of support. 
In his short connection with this enterprise, however, 
he became known as a man of scholarship and ability, 
and of the highest personal character ; and when the 
Governors of McGill were enabled by the subscription 
of 1856 to fill permanently the chairs of Classics and 
Mathematics, he was invited to be a candidate for 
the former, and was appointed in 1857, the same 
year in which Dr. Johnson, the present Dean of the 
Faculty, was appointed Professor of Mathematics and 
Natural Philosophy. 

“ Dr. Cornish from the first proved a great acquisi- 
tion to the University, and was distinguished not 
merely as a diligent and careful instructor, but as a 
man fitted by his wide reading and literary tasteand 
by his frank, kindly and thoroughly English manner, 
to give a refined tone to the students who came under 
his influence ; while his sterling Christian principle 
inspired all who knew him with the fullest confi- 
dence in his truth and honesty of purpose. 

“ Besides his more immediate professional duties, he 
willingly exerted himself on behalf of the University 
whenever called on to contribute gratuitously his time 
and energy to its service. 

“ He acted for many years as secretary to the Uni- 
versity Examiners, and in this capacity undertook the 
duty of seeing the annual examination papers of the 
different Faculties through the press, so as to secure 
their accurate publication. This work occupied much 
of his time in the summer vacations, and was a some- 
what onerous labor, even when not aggravated, as it 
sometimes was, by accidents or mistakes in the print- 
ing office, and by the tardiness of examiners in fur- 
nishing copies of their papers. These contretemps 
he bore with patience, though his work was not re- 
warded in any way, except by the gratitude of his 
more immediate colleagues. 

“ At a time when the University was unable to pro- 
vide a salary for a librarian, he undertook the office 
as an honorary one. as well as that of secretary of the 
Library Committee, and, with the aid of other pro- 
fessors, prepared the firit printed catalogue of our 
books. 

“ He was for many years a member of the Com- 
mittee of the Normal School, and took much interest 
in its affairs. He was also a member of the Protes- 
tant Committee of the Council of Public Instruction, 
and in that capacity gave special attention to the 



classical and English work of the higher schools. 
In connection with this committee he acted as a mem- 
ber of a local board for the examination of teachers, 
and afterwards of the Provincial Board. He took an 
active part from the first in the examinations for 
Associate in Arts, which have in late years grown to 
be so important a factor in the education of the Pro- 
vince of Quebec. 

“ He took a leading part in the organization and 
management of the Congregational College, the old- 
est of the affiliated Theological Colleges of McGill, 
and that in connection with which this method of pro- 
moting theological education in connection with the 
University was first brought into operation. 

“ For many years he was a representative of the 
Faculty of Arts in the corporation of the University, 
and was always a referee in all matters of inscrip- 
tions, dedications, addresses, and other literary 
productions of the University. He conducted the 
daily prayers in the Faculty of Arts, and after the 
death of Rev. Dr. Lead, acted as chaplain in all 
public meetings of the University. 

“While thus active, and eminently unselfish and 
public-spirited in his activities, he was often enfeebled 
by illness, and thus carried on his labors at the cost of 
some risk and suffering to himself, while he never 
sought for applause or even for the measure of com- 
mendation to which his varied usefulness to the Uni- 
versity 'and to the public fully entitled him. His real 
worth was known only to his more intimate friends, 
though his influence for good was felt in every part 
of the work of the University.” 

The above is so comprehensive a sketch of the de- 
ceased, that little more can or need be said. 

Nevertheless, a few words from the standpoint of 
a student may be interesting to other students. 

My recollections of Dr. Cornish date back to 1873, 
when as a Freshman I came to McGill. In those days 
one professor did, as well as he was able, the work 
which is now more fully accomplished by tw r o or three. 
It was so in every department. Dr. Cornish had no 
assistant. He covered the work of all four years 
alone, often lecturing three and four hours at a 
stretch. Of course he could not give his students the 
rich and varied instruction which is now their privi- 
lege, but his classes were a delight, and the students 
highly appreciated his work. 

To one who, like myself, entered college without 
very adequate preparation, his thorough tutorial 
work in the class was specially valuable. He seemed 
to call out the best that was in us, and give us help 
just where we needed it most. His translations were 
specially fine. Many a student, I doubt not, got his 
first glimpse of the real beauty and grandeur of 
Homer from the lips of Dr. Cornish, and possibly 



6 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



an equal number acquired from him their first appre- 
ciation of the real fineness and delicacy and power of 
their own mother tongue. He was wonderfully choice 
and discriminating in his use of the English language. 

His personal character was like his language, — pure 
and true. To the students of the First Year he seemed 
stern and somewhat unapproachable ; and doubtless 
he had very strict notions of what was fitting conduct 
on the part of a student to his professor. He be- 
lieved that only harm could come to the student 
who should be permitted to forget it. He was right. 
Reverence for one’s teacher lies at the basis of all 
growth in knowledge. But if he demanded respect, 
he always gave it in return. I never remember his 
treating any student other than as one gentleman 
should treat another. His students learned to appre- 
ciate his sterling character, and they regarded him as 
a noble type of an English gentleman and scholar. 

They trusted his honor implicitly, while he on 
his part, as the sessions advanced, and he found he 
could trust his men, delighted to unbend and show 
the essential geniality of his nature. 

Space will not allow me to dwell on his various 
and disinterested labors on behalf of the Denomina- 
tion of which he was a member and chief ornament, 
nor is this the most appropriate place to do so. Yet 
I may add, in order to a just estimate of his character 
and varied labors, that he was for years the secretary 
of Zion Church in the days of its greatest acti- 
vity, afterwards he was for many years secretary of 
Emmanuel Church, taking in each church the burden 
and work of a pastor (or at least a large part of it) 
during any interregnum. 

For years also he gave gratuitous instruction in the 
Congregational College, and was for twenty-five years 
its secretary also. Afterwards, and at the date of his 
death, he was chairman of its Board of Governors. 
He was also chaii man of the Home Missionary Society 
up to within a year of his death. 

It is surprising that he accomplished so much, 
especially as he was far from strong in health. His 
was a quiet, persistent and unselfish life,— a life that 
did not attract the attention of the multitude by rea- 
son of any surpassing brilliancy or masterful achieve- 
ment in any one direction. He might have won more 
fame if he had closed his ears to the appeals for help 
which came to him on every hand. But men like him 

were scarce, and he found a pleasure in doing- all the 
good he could. 

Such men are worthy of all honor, and when they 
pass away we do well to pause amid the rush of life, 
that in their absence we may learn, as we seem not 
able adequately to do in their presence, what sort of 
men they were with whom, by God’s grace, we have 
kept company, and .resolve to be worthy of them. 

W. HENRY WARRINER. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY YOUNG MEN’S 
CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION. 

The Young Men’s Christian Association in connec- 
tion with the University begins its work this session 
under peculiarly favorable circumstances. It has 
long been the desire of its promoters that a building 
might be secured that would be adequate for the carry- 
ing on of its work, but up to the present the desire had 
not been realized. Last winter, however, an oppor- 
tunity of securing a building in a specially convenient 
location presented itself, and the officers of the Asso- 
ciation were not slow to avail themselves of it. The 
offer was made to sell the property immediately oppo- 
site the College gate, known as the Bute House. A 
hurried canvass of the students was made, and the 
amounts promised, together with the generous dona- 
tions of city friends, were considered sufficient to war- 
rant the purchase of the lot and building. Trustees 
were appointed and the purchase was duly made. 

The task of fitting up and furnishing that part of 
the building required for the work of the Association 
was entrusted to a competent committee. The way 
in which they performed their duties certainly reflects 
creditably upon their taste, judgment and ability. 
This was done during the summer, and all was in read- 
iness for the reception of the students at the begin- 
ning of the college session. 

The object kept steadily before them was to make 
the building a college home for students, cheerful, 
home-like and inviting. A cosy reading-room with 
easy-chairs, papers and periodicals, a well-appointed 
parlor with piano and various games and pastimes, 
mellow tintings, electric lighting, and every comfort 
conspire to attract the students. 

And then in its situation it is unique. It stands 
opposite the main gate of the College, on the student 
thoroughfare, commanding a view of the University 
and grounds. 

A comfortable meeting-room, capable of holding up- 
wards of one hundred persons, has been furnished 
with folding seats, and here the regular meetings of 
the Association will be held on Sunday afternoons at 
3 o’clock, under the direction of Mr. H. M. Tory 
B.A., lecturer in Mathematics in the Faculty of Arts! 

Two meetings have already been held, and the in- 
terest and spirit manifested were such as to betoken 
a very successful series. The life of Christ will con- 
stitute the course; the meetings will be informal con- 
versational and devotional. 

i Be u Sld ^ s i the Sunday afternoon meetings, there will 
also be held through the week classes for Bible study 

themselves ° US FaCU ' tieS ’ conducted b 7 ‘he studenti 

Special efforts have been made to enlist the interest 
anc sympathies of the new students. To many, be- 
fore leaving home to come to college, the Student's 



McGill fortnightly. 



7 



Hand-Book was sent. It is published by the Asso- 
ciation, and is compiled with special reference to the 
requirements of the new men. It serves as an intro- 
duction to college life in general, and contains much 
information not found elsewhere. Those who have 
not received one may do so by calling at the office of 
the secretary, who will be pleased to receive all stu- 
dents whether new or old. 

Since the opening of the session, receptions for the 
new students have been held in the Association build- 
ing ; pleasant evenings have been spent and many 
new acquaintances have been formed. 

It is felt that the present is an important period in 
the history of the Association, and the hope is cherish- 
ed that it may receive the generous sympathy and 
hearty co operation of the student body. It is the 
only religious institution in connection with the Uni- 
versity, and had its origin in the spontaneous desire 
of the Christian students to band themselves together 
for aggressive work. It is operated by the students, 
for the students, and therefore can justly claim the 
support of the students. 

The building is open all day from 8.30 a.m., and 
every evening, and all students are cordially welcome 
to its privileges. 



THE LIBRARY. 

Were I to tell all that I think a library is, your pa- 
tience would be exhausted, and my strength would 
be in like plight. But there are one or two things it 
will be well to call to mind. A library contains the 
diary of the human race ; for it is with the human race 
as with the individuals of it — our memories go back 
but a little way, or, if they go back far, they pick 
up but here a date and there an occurrence half 
forgotten. But when a man keeps a diary of his life, 
he can at anytime bring the whole of its scenes before 
him. The memory of the human race is just as short, 
as fragmentary, and as accidental as the memory of 
the individual ; but when the books of mankind are 
gathered together, we can sit down and read the so- 
lemn story of man’s history, from his birth, through all 
his mutations ; and so in learning the history of man, 
we reverence our ancestors, ascertain our own pedi- 
gree, and find the secret sources of the life we our- 
selves are now living. Remember, we know well 
only the great nations whose books we possess, — 
of others we know nothing, or but little. The great 
Hebrew people — their solemn thoughts and their 
glorious story — lie open to us because we have their 
books. We know the Greek, we are familiar with 
the Roman ; but as for the nameless tribes who peo- 
pled the far deserts of the world, — unchronicled, 
bookless, libraryless— we have but a name, a date or 



two, a few myths, some trumpery legends, and that 
is all. But here are gathered together the great dia- 
ries of the human race, the record of its thoughts, its 
struggles, its doings, and its ways. The great consult- 
ing-room of a wise man is a library. When I am in 
perplexity about life, I have but to come here, and 
without fee or reward, I commune with the wisest 
souls God has blessed the world with. If I want a 
discourse on immortality, Plato comes to my help* If 
I want to know the human heart, Shakespeare opens 
all its chambers. Whatever be my perplexity or 
doubt, I know exactly the great man to call to me, 
and he comes in the kindest way, he listens to my 
doubts, and tells me his convictions. So that a library 
may be regarded as the solemn chamber in which a 
man takes counsel in all that have been wise and great 
and good and glorious amongst the men that have 
gone before him. 

H. M. 



LORD PLAYFAIR VISITS McGILL. 
Eloquent Address to the Students. 

Lord Playfair, the celebrated English scientist, in 
company with Lady Playfair, visited McGill last 
Monday, and addressed the students. He was escorted 
through the buildings by our new Principal, Sir 
William, Mr. John R. Molson, Dean Bovey, and Pro- 
fessors Cox and Callendar. In one of the large lecture 
theatres of the Physics Buildings he met the assembled 
Science students, who gave him a most hearty and 
vociferous welcome. Having been introduced by 
Dean Bovey, he said that he was always pleased to 
meet the students of any University, more especially as 
he was still a student himself, although an elderly 
one. 

He had been for many years prominently connected 
with University life, and his heart, therefore, was 
always with the students in their studies and plea- 
sures. It was eighteen years since he first became 
acquainted with Canada and with McGill University. 
He had several pleasant recollections of his visit to 
this city. At that time, if he remembered correctly, 
the ground upon which he was now standing was 
covered with the national emblem, — the maple. 

Sir William Dawson was at the head of University 
life, and here he would remark that he believed it 
was chiefly due to the efforts of the former Principal 
of McGill that the University at present was able to 
enjoy the world-wide reputation that it does. For 
many years he had known the new Principal, Dr. 
Peterson, and had become thoroughly acquainted with 
his wonderful organizing powers. He believed that 
in selecting him for the position of Principal, the 
Board of Governors had put the right man in the 



8 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



right place — a man who would certainly bring the 
University up to the higher standard and point of 
excellence possible to attain. 

From a recent visit to the various Faculties of 
McGill University, he could say that its progress had 
been unprecedented in the history of any University 
in this or any other country. Since 1884, when the 
British Association met here, the College had made 
tremendous advances. As he had passed through 
the Medical, Physical, and Engineering buildings, the 
conviction had been forced upon him that McGill 
University occupied an enviable position among the 
great educational institutions of the world. 

The Applied Science department was most thor- 
oughly equipped with all modern and necessary appa- 
ratus. He would remind the students, however, that 
in studying Applied Science they were only drinking 
at one of the little rivulets which flow from the great 
river of science. 1 he study of the former would 
eventually lead them into the wider field of science, 
in the study of which, having entered, he would ask 
them to persevere. When he should again visit 
McGill he hoped he might be able to note some im- 
provement in the means to procure a knowledge of 
questions scientific. 

Notwithstanding McGill’s present excellence, he 
would like to see its munificent donors and those in- 
terested in its welfare take further steps towards mak- 
ing it a great Canadian and British University, by 
providing a chemical institute in connection with the 
Faculty of Applied Science. Such was badly needed. 
In other respects, McGill afforded splendid facili- 
ties for her students. He was pleased to see so many 
students identified with science and engineering. 
Their studies would not be in vain. As the country 
was opened up, as it made the progress he felt sure it 
would do, their services would be called into requisi- 
tion to further its development. 

Touching upon the administration of the Univer- 
sity, His Lordship stated that he had noticed one 
defect in the organization which the authorities ought 
to supply. The Corporation and Faculties were both 
doing excellent work, but it was individual work for 
the individual Faculty. Faculties did not make a 
University. An organization, composed of the differ- 
ent Faculties, such as the academical societies of the 
Old World universities, would add very much to the 
strength and power of McGill University. Here the 
professors of all Faculties could meet as a whole for 
the consideration of questions of a common interest. 

This was the only thing required to complete the 
administrative power of the University, and he hoped 
the hint he had thrown out would be acted upon, in 
order that McGill might be second to none among 
the great universities of the Empire. 

At the conclusion of this address. Principal Peter- 



son spoke briefly, thanking their illustrious visitor 
for the address just given, and congratulating Dean 
Bovey on the thorough equipment of the Faculty of 
Applied Science. 



SPORTS NIGHT. 



The presence of some forty members from the sister 
Universities of Yale and Princeton, on McGill’s Annual 
Sports Day, will add a novel and interesting feature to the 
programme of attractions. 

The entire absence of representatives from American 
colleges at University functions in the past is a thing to 
be regretted ; but this new departure will likely be the com- 
mencement of the most friendly relations between our 
College friends to the south of us, and McGill, although it 
remains for the students to make it such. 

It has long been felt throughout the University that 
McGill students shou’dbe a unit in at least one occasion in 
the year, and that the rivalries and bitter feelings shown by 
the different Faculties in previous years should be re- 
placed by that good fellowship that should exist among 
all members of a common University. 

The solving of this problem, we believe, has been found 
in the Inter-Collegiate Concert, to be given on the night 
of October 25th. 






Ui 



'-"uv.n cl 



_ 1 C5CIi IcUiUIl 

Yale and Princeton men as will be with us on Sports Day is 
far fiom being a light one, and the expenses connected 
therewith are heavy ; but the purpose of the McGill Glee 
and Banjo Clubs in getting up this Concert has not been 
to raise funds, but to reunite the faculties in our Uni- 
versity, and, at the same time, give McGill men an oppor- 
tunity of becoming familiar with the undergraduate 
element of American Universities, 

To carry out fully the idea of a University Night, the 
Donaldas were asked to attend the concert in a body, and 
they have given their consent by requesting that a portion 
of the balcony be reserved for them. 

The Clubs are sparing no pains to make the evening’s 
programme attractive, and to that end are engaging one & of 

New York’s gifted vocalists, whose name cannot be 
announced as yet. 

The Academy of Music will present a gay appearance 
on Theatte Night. Ihe banners and colors of the respec 
live Universities, the blending of the blue and white of Yale 

,h ; °™.f and black of Princeton, the red and white 
of McGill, and the intertwining of the Union Jack with 
the Stars and Stripes, will make a scene never before 
witnessed by McGill students. 

N A word regarding the clubs who will take part on that 

G 't e C ' Ub ' S Conside,cd the best organization 
of kind on the continent, and from what the American 

papers have to say of their past performances, we may 
expect a treat. ’ y 



Club a club which has .ravelled from the Atlantic tole 
acific everywhere meeting with crowded houses and 
completely capturing its audiences by the air of jollity they 
bring with them on to the stage. 

American collegians are noted for their vim and snap, 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



and we have no fear in saying that the above clubs will be 
well received. 

Our own clubs, although only of a few years’ standing 
and while having formidable rivals in the visiting clubs, 
expect that, with fifty or sixty members to choose from, and 
from the indefagitable way in which all the members are 
attending rehearsals, they will being no discredit on the 
name of McGill and will come in for their share of honor 
on that night. 

Governors and Professors are giving their heaity sup- 
port to this endeavor of the McGill Clubs to bring together 
the respective Faculties on Sports Night, and they will be 
fully represented or the night of the 25th. 

All the committees connected with the visit of the Yale 
and Princeton Clubs, glee and banjo, are composed largely 
of representatives from the different Faculties, the Banjo 
and Glee Clubs having but two or three members on each 
of the above committees. 

The object of this has been to create a feeling among 
the students that the visitors who will be here on the 25th 
are their guests as well as the Clubs,’ and that their coming 
is of University interest. 

Let all the men of “Old McGill” strive to show the 
Yale and Princeton Representatives rn the 25th that 
“ McGill’s all right,” and that, despite the rumors of the 
past, there exists a strong bond of union among McGill 
students and a feeling of pride for our Alma Mater. 

W. F. CARTER, 

Mgr. McGill Glee fl Banjo Clubs . 

SOCIETIES. 



UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY. 

The first meeting of the above Society was held on 
Friday evening, October 4th, for the purpose of elect- 
ing officers for the ensuing year, and the transaction of 
business. 

The elections resulted as follows : — 

President. — V. E. Mitchell, Law. 

1 st Vice-President . — J. J. Green, Science. 

2nd Vice-President . — W. S. Ferguson, Arts. 

Secretary. — W. B. Heney, Arts. 

Treasurer. — S. Archibald, Arts. 

Asst. -Secretary. — Frank Patch, Arts. 

Programme Committee. — Messrs. (E.E.) Howard, 
Scrimger, Saxe, McMaster, Colby. 

Reporters. — McMaster and Colby. 

A change of night for meeting was discussed. 
Mr. McMaster moved, seconded by Mr. Saxe, that, 
owing to the many engagements of a social nature 
occurring on Friday night, Saturday night should be 
chosen as the night for meeting. After some discus- 
sion in which Messrs. Campbell, Heney and Archi- 
bald took part, the motion was lost. 

A vote of thanks was tendered to the retiring 
officers, to which ex-President Hanson made a neat 
reply. After thanking the members of the Society, 
he went on to say that the Society should be better 



upheld by the Third and Fourth Years. He said that 
the Society was patronized well by First and Second 
Year men, and that this interest should not be 
allowed to drop. 

If the reporter may be allowed to animadvert, he 
would like to ask all men of any brain whatsoever to 
back up the Literary. The elections show plainly 
that it is not merely an Arts affair, but that 
men from all other Faculties are invited, not only to 
attend, but to become president or vice, or to mingle 
their talent with that of the Programme Committee. 

SCRIBUS SENIOR. 

Y. W. C. A. 

Friday, September 27th, was the day appointed 
for the reception annually extended to the First Year 
students. 

The Second Year class-room was scarcely to be 
recognized as such by the new members, for dra- 
peries of red and white covered the windows, black- 
board and professor’s desk, the doors being also 
draped. Rugs covered the ink-stained floor, and 
tables placed in convenient corners were attractive, 
not only on account of the dainties on them, but also 
by their flowers and ornaments. Two or three 
large arm-chairs made the room more inviting. 
Miss Cowan favored us with a recitation, and Miss 
Watson with a song, which, together with other 
musical selections, added to the pleasure of the 
evening. 

Miss Vaudry, our president, welcomed the new 
students in a few bright words, and mentioned the 
weekly meeting held in connection with the Associa- 
tion, inviting them to attend it as often as possible. 

The evening was closed by the singing of the 
hymn, “ Blest be the tie that binds.” 

On Wednesday, October 2nd, we held our first 
regular meeting. The subject was “ The Christian 
Armor.” Miss Vaudry directed our attention to 
the subject by comparing the armor of a Christian 
with that of a warrior in past times. We need the 
Christian armor in all its several pieces, and the rea- 
sons were given for this need. 

The picture of the Christian soldier was well drawn 
but we regret to say our first meeting was not largely’ 
attended. This may be explained by the fact that 
some were at lectures at the hour, but it will probably 
be so arranged that all may come. 

B. W. REID, 

Reporter Y. W. C. A., ’95-96. 

DELTA SIGMA SOCIETY. 

The annual business meeting of this Society was 
held on Thursday, October 3rd, at 4 o’clock p.m. 

After the rules of the Society had been read, the 
following officers for the year were elected : — 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



io 



President. — A. Denoon, Fourth Year. 

Vice-President.— Vi. Holden, Third Year. 

Secretary- Treasurer. — H. Brooks, Second \ ear. 

Assistant Sec.- Treasurer.— K. Finley, First Year. 

Committee— E. Armstrong, B.A. ; F. Botterell, 
Fourth Year ; G. F. Codd, First Year. 

Reporter.— M. T. Cameron, Third Year. 

Miss Pitcher, the retiring vice-president, addressed 
the Society, urging all the members to take an active 
interest in it. A vote of thanks to Miss Pitcher for 
her services as vice-president was moved and 
seconded. There were so many at the meeting that 
the room was crowded. 

When we have a little more esprit dc corps , and 
when we realize how much good it does us to debate 
and to listen to debates, and how encouraging it is to 
those who take the trouble to prepare debates and 
essays to have a large audience, the Second Year 
Class Room will be too small for the meetings. 



AFFILIATED COLLEGES. 



THE DIOCESAN COLLEGE. 

The Diocesan College opened for its twenty-third 
session with the annual conference of its alumni. 
The proceedings opened with a communion service 
and sermon by Principal Henderson in St. George’s 
church, on Wednesday, the 1 8th of September. The 
conference was carried on simultaneously with the 
closing days of the Provincial Synod of Canada, and 
lasted till Friday morning, being closed with a lun- 
cheon to the alumni, students and friends of the Col- 
lege, at which several of the Bishops of the ecclesi- 
astical province were present. 

Lectures have now begun in earnest, and the work 
of the term is in full swing. 

W. B. H. 



PRESBYTERIAN COLLEGE. 

The formal opening of the Presbyterian College 
for the session 1895-96 was held in the David Mor- 
rice Hall on Wednesday evening, October 2nd. The 
Rev. Dr. MacVicar, Principal of the College, occupied 
the chair. 

After devotional exercises conducted by Rev. Mr. 
MacLeod, the opening lecture was delivered by Rev. 
Professor Scrimger, who chose as his subject “ The 
Ministers Working Theology.” The lecture, which 
was able and instructive, was listened to with rapt 
attention by the students and large audience assem- 
bled. 

The statement made by Rev. Principal MacVicar, 
at the close of the lecture, showed a considerable 



ncrease in the number of students, a greater number 
being enrolled than in any previous year. Lectures 
have now begun, and the prospects for this year are 
of a most encouraging and satisfactory nature. 

D. M. McL. 



WESLEYAN THEOLOGICAL COLLEGE. 

The opening in connection with the above took place 
on Wednesday, September 1 8th, at 3 P- ni - On the 
platform were Principal Shaw and Professors Antliff 
Richardson and Harris. Before them were ranged all 
the students who had returned. Some who should 
have been there were still languishing on the bosom 
of the blue St. Lawrence, the reason, they say, was 
the extreme draught of the boat and the lowness of 
the water, but we conjecture that the causes were 
multifarious. 

Principal Shaw extended the usual hearty welcome, 
and his words of kindly exhortation were carefully 
attended to, especially by the “ Freshmen, ” whose 
number this year is legion. Professor Antliff* seconded 
his chief with some well-timed, happy advice and cau- 
tion. The Registrar and the Bursar made necessary 
announcements in reference to classes and other in- 
ternal matters. 

Judging from the trend of the remarks and the 
docile receptivity of the Freshmen, our prophet says 
we’re to have a perfect session, but alas ! “ All is not 
gold that glitters.” 

A. P. B. 



CONGREGATIONAL COLLEGE OPENING. 

The opening exercises of the Congregational Col- 
lege for the session 1895-96 took place on Thursday 
evening, October 3rd. 

The attendance was large, the assembly hall being 
well filled. The meeting was honored by the presence 
of Dr. Peterson, Principal of McGill. 

Mr. J. R. Dougall, chairman of the Board, presided, 
and there were also on the platform the Principal, 
professors and members of the Faculty and Board of 
Directors. 

Dr. Barbour read an address of welcome to Prin- 
cipal Peterson. I he address expressed the cordial 
greetings alike of professors, directors and students. 
It referred to the new Principal’s earnest and suc- 
cessful labors in the old land. It reminded him that 
the Congregational denomination had been closely 
identified with the progress of education on this 
continent. It expressed a desire for the most har- 
monious relationship between the College and the 
University of which he had charge 

The address concluded by wishing Principal 
I eteison happiness and prosperity in his new field of 
labor. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



1 1 



When Dr. Peterson stepped forward to respond, he 
was greeted with loud and prolonged applause. He 
said he was glad that Principal Barbour had assured 
him that he would refrain from exacting anything of 
the nature of an address from him. A formal address 
was one thing, but the effort to give expression to 
heart-felt gratitude was quite another. He thanked 
them for so signal a mark of sympathy and encour- 
agement. As a stranger he had been received in 
Canada with universal kindness. And there was no 
more pleasing feature in his reception than this valu- 
able address. The address reminded him of the fact 
that he stood there within the oldest of four theolo- 
gical colleges affiliated with McGill. This called to 
mind his experience across the ocean. The relation- 
ship between theological colleges and universities 
was exemplified in the Old Country. 

In Scotland the Faculty of Theology had been an 
integral part of the constitution of colleges. The 
question had arisen as to the advisability of continu- 
ing this arrangement. He had pleaded that some- 
thing should be done to prevent this absolute divorce 
of Theology from the University curriculum. In 
Canada he found that question had been practically 
settled by allowing each denomination to have its own 
theological college in affiliation with the University. 
This relationship of affiliation was advantageous and 
successful where the colleges were at a great distance 
from the University, or, as in this case, when the Col- 
lege was situated at the very gates of the University, 
so long as the College did not attempt to duplicate or 
do over again the work done by the University. 

He appreciated the intellectual progress and free- 
dom of thought characteristic of Congregationalism. 
He eulogized R. F. Horton for the high ideal of the 
Christian minister which he upheld in his book “ Ver- 
bum Dei.” By personal reminiscences he showed how 
he had affinities with every one of the four denom- 
inations represented by the four theological colleges 
connected with McGill. 

Prof. Warriner then delivered a most appropriate 
and earnest address on “ The Place and Function of 
the College in the Education of the Minister.” 

J. C. W. 



GLASS REPORTS. 



MEDICAL CLASS REPORTS. 

On Tuesday, the ist of October, Medicine held her 
opening lecture. A large number of professors occu- 
pied the platform, and the body of the theatre was 
packed by an enthusiastic assemblage of embryo 

Medicos ”. 

The addresses delivered by the different speakers 
were extremely interesting and impressive, and, judg- 



ing from the frequent outbursts of applause, well 
received by the students. 

Dean Craik, Dr. Finley and Dr. Peterson, McGill’s 
new principal, were president. This was the first 
appearance of Dr. Peterson before the Medical Facul- 
ty, and without doubt he made a lasting impression 
both as a gentleman and a scholar. McGill is to be 
congratulated on her acquisition. 

Dr. Craik and Dr. Finley both delivered eloquent 
addresses. 

At a meeting of the four Years, held on Wednesday 
October qth, after a somewhat warm debate, it was 
almost unanimously decided that Medicine would 
heartily support an annual University Theatre Night 
to be held on the evening of the “ Field Day ”. 

It was also decided that the proposed University 
Dinner would be supported by the Faculty. The 
general opinion among the Meds is that it would be a 
fitting occasion for the students of McGill to extend 
a hearty welcome to Dr. Peterson, our new Principal. 

FOURTH YEAR. 

At a meeting of the P'ourth Year held on Monday, 
October 7th, the following gentlemen were elected to 
office : — 

President. — W. K. Kendrick. 

Vice-President . — E. C. Fish. 

Secretary, — W. A. Moffat. 

Class Reporter. — G. D. Robins. 

That we have the right men in the right place this 
year is evidenced by the fact that the elections were 
in each case unanimous. 

Suitable speeches were made by these gentlemen 
on their election, and also by the retiring president of 
the Year, Mr. F. C. Duckett. 

A conundrum somewhat difficult to solve has 
been propounded to the Finlll Year men, i.e. ; Given 
two hours time, how can a student most easily attend 
three clinics and eat a respectable dinner ? 

Any gentleman answering the above will be the 
recipient of the heartfelt blessings of the Fourth Year. 



Episode at the M. G. H. : 

Doctor (examining patient) — “ Now, gentlemen, you 
see a beautiful example of Cheyne Stokes breathing 
— the breathing has now stopped — now it starts ; — no, 
— it is still stopped.” 

(Breathless attention on the part of the class.) 

Doctor steps back and commences an explanation of 
the phenomenon, and patient commences breathing. 
“ You see, ” begins the lecturer, “ the patient now 

breathes again, and ” “ You want for me hold my 

breat’ ’gain, doctor ?” breaks in the patient. 

(Roars of laughter from the Students). 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



1 2 



THIRD YEAR. 

Nearly all the members of the Year have returned 
from their summer rambles, and, no doubt, are refresh- 
ened both in mind and body, and doubly so in the 
eyes of their seniors. 

Final men, be easy on them if they report a case 
as Talipes Varus instead of lock-jaw, and remember 
you were there once, and times are harder, much 
harder, now. 

Some of the men have grown wiser since last year, 
while others have grown an appendage to the upper 
lip. 

On Friday morning, the old sport wheeled in 
from Halifax via New York. He made good time. 

The first meeting of the Year took place on Mon- 
day, the 7th, with Vice-President presiding. 

There weie many expressions of regret owing to 
the absence of President Peppers this year. Frank 
Rogers was elected class-reporter. A hearty vote of 
thanks was tendered the retiring reporter, Mr. 
Proderick, for his faithful attendance to duties in the 
past. He is now one of the business managers of 

the Fortnightly. 

At a meeting of the Year on Tuesday, 8th inst., 
Messrs. Gordon and Hayden were appointed to look 
after the athletic contingent of the class. 

How Long is this reduction in cab fare to continue ? 
Sports day will soon be here, and it is unfortunate 
that the athletes of the Third Year cannot have 
time for regular training in the afternoon. 



SECOND YEAR. 

At a meeting of the Second Year Medicine, Mon- 
day, September 30th, the class officers for the ensuing 
year were elected. The election resulted as follows: 
President. — F. C. Fraser, B.A. 

Vice-President— C. Ogilvy, B.A. 

Secretary.— W . W. Lynch. 

Class Reporter. F. W. Harvey, B.A 
The old worn out discussion on the subject of 
Theatre Night has been revived again this year, and 
the question as to whether we are to have a Faculty 
or a University night is now practically settled. We 
are to have a University Theatre Night, and the 
Second Year must be congratulated on their efforts to 
bring this about, and in their unselfishness in gi v in<r 
up the so-called rights claimed by Second Year^Meds 
of former years. It now remains for the class of ’08 
to make every effort to make this night a success, 
that future Sophomores may not accuse us of acting 
unwisely in thus establishing a precedent 
Now that a decided University spirit has been 
shown by the Second Year with regard to Theatre 
Aight, a strong Faculty spirit should stimulate the 



class to contribute its best efforts to secure the Faculty 
trophy on Sports Day. Every athlete of the class 
should begin training at once, if he has not already 
done so, and help to return the trophy to the Faculty 
where it belongs— Medicine. 

FIRST YEAR. 

At the meeting of the First Year, the foil owing 
officers were elected : — 

President.—}. R. O’Brien. 

Vice-President. — R. J. Tooke. 

Secretary.— Mr. Galbraith. 

Class Reporter. — Mr. Harris. 

ARTS NOTES. 



The results of the examinations for Scholarships, 
Exhibitions, Bursaries, etc., have not heretofore been 
published in the FORTNIGHTLY; but noapologyis need- 
ed for introducing the custom, since the winners in this 
contest have certainly as much claim to honorable 
mention as those on the campus or elsewhere. 

The following is the list in the order of merit 
Thud Year. Scholarships tenable two years. 

Mathematical Sch., Malcolm MacKay . .$12500 
Mathematical Sch., Mary Cameron . . . 125 00 

Natural Science Sch., John G. Saxe . . 125 00 

Classics and Modern ) H. Ker . . . I2 5 00 

Languages Sch., j T. R. MacMillan. 125 00 
Second Year. — Exhibition tenable one year. 

Harriet Brooks, Seaforth Colleg. Inst. . .$13500 
Wm. A. Gardner, Huntingdon Academy . . 125 00 

R. W. Dalgleish, Huntingdon Academy . . 125 00 

D. W. Munn, Quebec High School . . . 125 00 

First Year. Exhibitions, etc., tenable one year. 

j L. Robertson, Prince of Wales Coll., P.E.I $125 00 

^ A r T D Edwards > Montreal Coll. Inst. . . 125 00 

W^G Brown, Huntingdon Academy . . . IOO 00 

| G. T. Bruce, Huntingdon Academy . . . IOO 00 

p a M n rs T, n ; Princc ofWales Co11 - • 

, ' A - J Ic Donald, Huntingdon Acad 90 o0 

Lucy ^ Pottev, McCih Notmai Sch. . . I20 00 

• H. Henderson, Huntingdon Acad. . . . Bursary. 

TlVO fact ' i in connection with this list are very strik- 
1 • * 

The one. that out of twelve in the First and Se- 
cond Years who obtained pri.es six came from Hu - 
tmgdon Academy ; the other th a t ^ 

Montreal High School ^ fr ° m 

HiI h s e h' hi l iS far fr ° m bein? the usual record of the 

Hunting 00 ,/ 1 ! We " kn ° Wn th3t th * Academy of 
n 1 2 , t " haS bee " gradua "y « m ing to the front. 

o 2r ° CCUP, V P ° Siti0n Which must be a source 
of grat.ficat.on to all who are interested in its welfare. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



13 



The Arts men regret that they did not have the 
opportunity of hearing the address given in the Phy- 
sics Building by Lord Playfair ; but one remark at 
least of that eminent scientist finds a responsive echo 
in all who have “ passed through” the Chemistry 
room. After congratulating professors and students 
on the magnificent provision made for the study of 
Applied Science, he said: — “Your chemical labora- 
tory is improved since I was here ; it is now very much 
better, but it is not worthy of the McGill University 
yet.” 

Judging from the orderly way in which the elec- 
tion of officers for the different Years has proceeded, 
we feel that we have in our midst many who will in 
the future in wider fields ably support any election 
reform. 

The officers for the various Years are as follows : — 



FOURTH YF.AR. 

President. — J. C. Robertson. 

Vice-President. — Kenneth Molson. 

Secretary. — Herbert Ross. 

Class Reporter. — W. S. Lennon. 

Reading Room Com. — W. G. Turner, W. S. Fer- 
guson. 

THIRD YEAR. 

President. — Ed. M. Campbell. 

Vice-President. — A. K. Trenholme. 

Secretary. — S. Archibald. 

Reporter. — J. G. Saxe. 

Reading Room Com. — R. P. Campbell, C. K. Rus- 
sel. 

SECOND YEAR. 

President. — J. C. Colby. 

Vice-President. — R. W. Dalgleish. 

Secretary. — A. H. Grace. 

Reporter . — M. C. Heine. 

Reading Room Com.— A. H. Duff, R. C. Paterson, 



tainly Arts ’99 have good reason to feel of some im- 
portance ; but one little word of warning we would 
give you thus early , — “ Beware the Xmas exams. 

On the morning of September 28th, about 25 mem- 
bers of Arts ’98 accompanied Prof. Penhallow upon the 
first botanical excursion of the season. 1 he walk over 
the mountain was most enjoyable, and undoubtedly 
the most eagerly sought specimens were those of the 
“ Pirus malus. ” 

On October 5th members added to their private 
collection many valuable representatives of the genus. 

The Sophomore Greeks are eagerly anticipating the 
pleasure and the honor of a visit from “ Our Prin- 
cipal.” 

LEGAL BRIEFS. 

A meeting of the members of the Faculty was held 
on Monday, 9th September, for the purpose of elect- 
ing officers for the ensuing year. Mr. W. Donahue, 
B.A., was elected President ; Mr. Leslie Boyd, B.A., 
Vice-President; Mr. Claude Hickson, B.A., Secretary; 
and Mr. J. Cook, Class Reporter. 

The Class of’98 is a large one, though not quite so 
large as that of last year. 

Among the graduates in Arts of last spring we 
have Mr. Howard ex-president of the Fourth Year, 
Mr. Burnet, Mr. Rogers and Mr. Hickson. Mr. 
Semple, a graduate of St Mary’s College, is also among 
the Freshmen. 

William Pitt III is back again. We are glad to 
see Willie, and think he is improved — if improvement 
is possible in his case. Rumor has it that he finds that 
life is after all not the dreary wilderness he expected. 
His worth as a man of business is beginning to be fully 
appreciated byhis fortunatefriends, and, as an Adonis, 
his star is rising rapidly. Best congratulations, Bill. 



FIRST YEAR. 

President. — A. G. Cameron. 

Vice-President. — L. Roberts on . 

Secretary.— J. Kingsbury. 

Reporter. — W. G. Cumming. 

Reading Room Com. — W. G. Brown, W. G. Mit- 
chell. 

The Seniors miss the smiling face of Mr. Cole ; we 
understand he has gone to Harvard, and have no 
doubt he will be heard from. 

The Third Year in Arts are glad to welcome into 
their midst Mr. Archibald of ’96, as well as Messrs. 
Watson, McBurney and Crack from St. Francis Col- 
lege. 

If numbers and size count in College life, then cer- 



A meeting of the Students was held the other day, 
toconsider the question of the B.C.L. degree admitting 
them to practice without the unnecessary trouble of a 
“ Final.” The feeling was unanimously expressed that 
the Final” was utterly useless, a good deal of worry 
to the student, of no practical use, and should there- 
fore be abolished. 

The Bar, however, with a surprising want of that 
respect due to our august body, completely disregard- 
ed our views of the matter, and by the scandalous 
majority of 143 voted against the proposal. The Bar 
deserves, and has, the withering contempt of the 
whole Faculty — at least as regards this little matter. 

Several of the Freshmen went to see Irving in the 
“ Merchant of Venice.” 



14 



McGill fortnightly. 



On the whole they admitted that the performance 
was interesting, but with the learning characteristic 
of their class were disposed to be very severe upon the 
legal points involved in the play. 

“ How was it,” they asked in indignant anger, “ that 
the procedure observed in the court of justice was of 
so summary a nature ?” Surely a case in which a pound 
of human fresh was involved deserved to be treated 
as a non-summary matter. 

What sort of a lawyer had Shylock ? Or if Shylock 
represented himself, why did he not at once recuse 
the president, on the ground that the latter was pre- 
judiced in favor of the defendant ? 

What sort of laws had the Venetians anyway ? 
Why did they for an instant countenance an immoral 
contract, a contract certainly contrary to public order 
and good morals ? 

But supposing the contract to be good, were the 
judges so ignorant of the spirit of the law as not at 
once to see that blood was essentially of the nature of 
the contract, and therefore needed not to be expressed 
in order to be included in it ? 

These great and momentous questions have not 
yet been answered. 

Any correspondence upon this subject from Sir 
Henry, Miss Terry or the shade of Shakespeare will 
be thankfully received. 



It was ultimately decided, however, that, as the 
subject is a difficult one, it would be better to have 
the lectures in English. A motion was carried accord- 
ingly. 



We are glad to see Mr. R. Marlcr with us this year. 
Mr. Marler is, we understand, studying for the 
Notarial profession. 

SCIENCE JOTTINGS. 

The Years have elected officers as follows : — 
Fourth Year— Pres., Geo. Walkem ; Vice-Pres., C. 
H. Wright ; Sec., Alex. R. Dufresne ; Reading Room, 
J. Hunter and W. M. Webb ; Class Reporter, Forrest 
Rutherford. 

Third Year — Pres., B. C. Travis ; Vice-Pres., O. S. 
Finnie ; Sec., P. Paradis ; Reading Room, R. L. 
Haycock and H. Burnham ; Class Reporter, G. R. 
MacLeod. 

General-Treasurer, J. W. Bell. 

Second Year — Pres., A. Laurie ; Vice-Pres., E. 
McLea ; Sec., J. B. McRea ; Reading Room, A. 
Davis ; Class Reporter, E. G. Cape. 

First Year — Pres., N. M. McLeod ; Vice-Pres., R. 
Kane; Sec., Mr. Young ; Reading Room, Mr. Nicols ; 
Class Reporter, E. F. Sise. 



Mr. Fortin has decided, we are sorry to say, to 
complete his University course at Laval. 

Mr. Fortin’s interesting personality will be much 
missed. 



The Donaldas will be sorry to hear that, after 
many years of practical study and experience, Cupid 
has decided that love is a vain thinp- 

o * 

“ All is vanity, including women,” he informed us. 
“Hencefoith all my time, energy and talents will 
be devoted to the Circuit Court.” We sympathize 
with the Donaldas, and sincerely congratulate the 
Circuit Court on its great victory. 



Obligations on the 19th, Bibliography (en masse) 
on the 26th. \ e gods ! what a time we are going to 

have this year ! 



A desire was expressed by several of the Students 
that Professor Fortin, who is lecturing this year on 
Prescription, should give his lectures in French. A 
meeting was consequently called to discover the wishes 
of the majority upon the subject. Several good 
speeches were made, notably those by Messrs. Bond 
Pelland and Jasmin. The latter made a very clever 
speech, and shewed clearly that, though a matter of 
indifference to him, it would be of great benefit to the 
English students to have the lectures in French. 



H. M. McKay, Sc. ’94, was in town one day last 
week, on his way to Ottawa from the Lower St. 
Lawrence, where he was engaged on the tidal survey 
during the summer. He was warmly welcomed by 
his many friends in college. 

Cecil Holland, Sc. ’96-97-98, has sought fresh pas- 
tures, and now signs himself Med. ’99. 

The Science students had their introduction to our 
new Principal last week, on the occasion of Lord 
Playfair’s visit to McGill. They came to the unani- 
mous decision that “ He’s all right,” and were ready 
to bet on it too. They also hope that the next time 

they meet him he will not be so short of time for his 
address. 



The Fourth Year is in mourning. Ogilvie is in 
Alaska, and Archibald is not here, and the civils and 
miners will not be comforted. 



- — olcui nav 

been made as follows Mr. W. A. Carlyle, Ma.E 
lecturer in Mining, to be professor in the same subjec 
r. C. B. Smith, Ma.E., lecturer in Civil and Rai 
road Engineering, professor in the same subjects ; M 
Guest, assistant professor in Mechanical Engineei 
ing ; W. A. Duff, Sc. ’94, demonstrator in Therm 
Lab. ; Louis Herdt, Sc. ’93, demonstrator Dynam 

Room; J. G. G. Herry, Ma.E., lecturer in Descrir 
tive Geometry and Surveying. * 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



15 



W m. — “ Oh! that is all right ; the Fourth Year 

always turn out FULL.” 

Thermo class. Prof. — “ What is Pole noted for ? ” 
Student — “ A treatise on hvhist.” 



We are most pleased to sec our esteemed Secretary’s 
name holding such a prominent position on the Board. 

What about the drinking cups for the lavatories 
that were promised us when the present Seniors were 
F'reshmen ? We pause for a reply, and would like it 
soon. 

T (reading sextant). — “The sun is 14° 30 1 

below zero.” 

(On the mountain) “ We must be about the summit.” 

“ No ; some’{at) higher up.” 

“You are liable to arrest for trespass if you go 
that way.” 

“ Well, I am tired and want a (r) rest.” 

What a funny cular polygon it is, oh ye juniors! 

“ K left his umbrella in Knox church the 

other night.” “ Well, that knox him out of his 
umbrella.” 

During the last few weeks the Freshmen have 
been very much in evidence about the corridors 
workshops, etc. Their confidence in themselves, 
seems unbounded. May it stand by them in the try- 
ing times that come in December and April. 

At the first scrap of the year between the Sophs 
and Freshies, the latter made a very good impression 
on the minds of the onlookers and on the persons of 
the Sophs. 

The following are on the committee to arrange 
Sports Night celebration : F. Rutherford, C. H. 
Wright B. Travis, and Messrs. Wilkinson, McPhail, 
Henderson. 

They are workers, and backed up as they are by the 
sentiment of the whole Faculty of Science, they should 
do much to make the enterprise of the Glee & Banjo 
Club a success. 



FEATHERS FROM THE EAST WING. 

We welcome to our columns all new contributors 
and readers this year. With such an able staff of class- 
reporters as have been elected, we feel that our items 
will be as entertaining as those of former years. 

These reporters are as follows : — 

First Year.— Miss Tighe. 



Second Year. — Miss Bourke- Wright. 

Third Year. — Miss Rugg. 

Fourth Year. — Miss Macphail. 

The officers for the several years have also been 
elected. 

FIRST YEAR. 



President. — Miss Potter. 
Vice-President . — M iss Fi nley. 
Secretary . — Miss Radford. 

SECOND YEAR. 

President. — Miss Brooks. 
Vice-President . — M iss J ordan . 
Secretary. — Miss Cowan. 

THIRD YEAR. 



President . — Miss Cameron. 

Vice-President . — M iss McBurney . 

Secretary . — Miss Young. 

FOURTH YEAR. 

President . — Miss Hammond. 

Vice-President . — Miss Denoon. 

Secretary . — Miss Brown. 

It is evident that Miss Brooks’ and Miss Potter’s 
class-mates appreciate having exhibition-winners 
among them, since they have entrusted them with 
their highest offices. “ These are they who deserve 
their greatness.” 

On Friday, September 27th, a business meeting of 
the four Years was held, at which the officers of the 
Reading-Room Committee were elected, and a few 
remarks were made concerning the FORTNIGFITLY 
for those unacquainted with it. 



The higher education of women does not seem to 
be in great disfavor in Montreal. There are one 
hundred and twenty-four women attending lectures 
this year, fifty-nine of whom are undergraduates and 
ten taking full work not yet matriculated. 

Miss McWilliam and Miss Hill will be greatly 
missed by their class-mates of ’96. We regret that 
they have not returned. 

Recently a curious optical illusion was shown in 
the Second Year Psychology class. Taking two ver- 
tical lines of the same length, but adding at their ex- 
tremities lines having a different direction, we agreed 
it was impossible to believe the original vertical lines 
were of the same length. 

Thus : 




i6 



MCGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Does not this fact offer a suggestion to all very tall 
and very short students who deplore their lengths ? 

The new “ Students’ Hand Book,” published by the 
Y. M. C. A., is an excellent little book of its kind. 
Yet it might have added one more charitable hint 
to the new student, namely, that nothing in the 
Calendar Time-Table means anything, and that it will 
be no waste of time to calculate how many times the 
given subjects therein may be changed in the given 
hours. 



At the reception given by the Y. W. C. A. to new 
students, a good many of last session’s Freshies were 
present. There was noticeable nowand then an ex- 
pression of something akin to elation on the faces of 
these latter as they talked to the new-comers, and 
asked in condescending tones how they were finding 
the work, — no doubt reflecting with pleasure that 
now it was possible to snub instead of being snubbed. 



The Gymnasium class was reopened on Tuesday, 
October ist, with a very fair attendance ; but there is 
still much room for improvement in this respect, and 
the time to come is at the beginning. It is very much 
regetted that Miss Barnjum, owing to illness, is pre- 
vented from being present, and her return is looked 
for with pleasant anticipations. In the meantime, 
the class is skillfully managed by Miss Evans, accom- 
panied at the piano by our old friend Miss Lilian 
Evans. 

Once more we say to every Donalda, come and you 
will make up for the time spent, by the energy with 
which you can take your “ notes” when fresh from the 
“ Gym”. 

Junior (in perplexity) — “What are the advantages 
of an Honor Course ?” 

Senior. — “ You see, in the first place, you don’t 
have to take Mechanics.” 

The Junior is taking Honors. 



“Sermons in books, stones in the running brooks 
and good in everything” such is the critique of our 
modern geologist — such wisdom does the attainment 
of seniority bestow. 

Wondrous echoes reach us from St. Helen’s Island, 
and surely never did the Mile End quarries resound 
with a more “stout-hearted” stroke than that which 
on Saturday last severed the rocks and “ won the 
fossil fair.” Not only was there sought the pure 
truth of Science, but the mind seemed to soar into 
regions of the ideal, resulting in touching reflections 
such as this : — 

“Two Trilobita once lived side by side 
In life they loved, grim Death did not divide.” 

Exalted thus, and laden with ancient lore, — to say 
nothing of ungainly parcels of broken stones, the 
geologists return to ordinary life, well satisfied with 
their morning’s rambles, and determined to come 
next time prepared with satchels in which to carry 
said parcels, also resolved to put a little more energy 
into their pounding and to “ mind their eyes.” 

The Second Year students are pleased to have 
among them three new comers : Miss Munns and 
Miss Van Vlict from Stanstead College, and Miss 
Reynolds from Queen’s. 



The Constitution for the Donalda Department, 
which was drawn up last year, was read to the four 
assembled Years, Thursday, October 3rd. It is hoped 
that this attempt to do away with the constant col- 
lecting of small fees will prove a success in its work- 
ing this year. 



The Honor English students are finding the Satur- 
day morning readings from Professor Moyse most 
delightful, and feel it to be a great kindness shown 
them. The thought of this feast of good things 
coming at the end of the week tides over many an 
hour of monotonous work, and when Saturday mor- 
ning is past, the timorous “ Rival,” “ The Blessed 
Demoiselle,” or the noble “ Montrose” are their com- 
panions for days to come. 

The Sophomores of i 894-’95 have, with one excep- 
tion, come up for the Junior work. 

We regret exceedingly the absence of Miss Rickey. 
Any break in the pleasant circle of last year is to 
be regretted. We are glad to see Miss McBurney 
once more, and cordially welcome Miss Rugg from 
Stanstead College and Miss Reynolds from Queen’s. 

We feel that this class is to be a brilliant one 
Already, even after these few days, the students show, 
a remarkable recollection of last year’s work. The 
bewildered expression usual at this time of the year 
has been observed to give way to one of intelligent 
and glad recognition at the Professor’s mild suggestion 
“ablative absolute.” On Wednesday last, one of 
our number distinguished the “ dative of the agent ” 
from “ the ablative of means.” On Friday three 
remembered the formula s = vt. 

We consider this very encouraging, and anticipate 
great results from the year’s work. 



The Freshies are the most skeptical individuals 
imaginable, indeed they go beyond the imagination of 
simple-minded Donaldas. One of them, not knowing 
what to do with her gown at night, was told to hang 
it up ; but this she would not do, because she thought 
some thief in the night might carry it off. Therefore 
she locked it in her locker, where it would be safe from 
human hands. She was starting home joyfully when 
suddenly a terrible thought came into her head — there 
might be mice — but her friends all assured her that 
there were not any ; so she went home. Next morning, 
alittle before sunrise, she was up knocking at the door; 
when she got in, she flew to get her gown, and satisfied 
herself that it was all right. Evidently she had been 
haunted all night with visions of mice roaming round 
the building dressed in gowns — her gown. Let us 

hope that anxiety about her gown will not affect her 
work. 

Lively young Donaldas’99 were pleased to learn that 
they were to “scamper over the Anglo-Saxon poets,” 
for these gentlemen, having been resting so long, must 
be quite numb by this time, and will not be conscious 
of their disrespectful treatment. 



Donalda translation : — 

Der Vater schuttelle seinem Sohne die Hand und 
sagta ihm Lebewohl. 

I he father shook his son with his hand and said 
farewell. 



mcgill fortnightly. 



1 7 



FACULTY OF COMPARATIVE MEDICINE. 

The opening lectureof the session delivered by Dr. 
M. C. Baker wasofa highly entertaining and instruc- 
tive nature. 

He advised participation in the College sports by 
the students, and systematic study, — a plan which, if 
followed, would materially lessen the work and worry 
incident to approaching exams. 

More college spirit among the students and a closer 
affiliation of the different Faculties were referred to as 
most desirable. 



Dr. William Bryden, ’71, well and favorably known 
in Boston, died there on June 28, 1895, after a pro- 
tracted illness. 

Deceased was a native of Scotland, but came to the 
new world when a boy. He graduated from the 
Montreal Veterinary College shortly after its founda- 
tion, and for many years served on the examining 
board. 

He was a past president of the U. S. Veterinary 
Medical Association ; also a charter member and past 
president of the Massachusetts Veterinary Medical 
Association, and an honorary member at the time of 
his demise. 

For many years he was inspector of cattle for 
British steamships at the port of Boston, known per- 
sonally to most members of the profes-.ion throughout 
the country, and to others, by his frequent contri- 
butions to the professional journals. 

He was a good friend and ever ready adviser to the 
young practitioner, of a genial and hospitable nature, 
an able student and an intelligent practitioner of the 
science he loved. 



Dr. E. H. Lenhert, ’95, is lecturing on Veterinary 
Science at the Mass. State Agricultural College, dur- 
ing the absence in Europe of Dr. J. B. Paige, ’88. 

Dr. C. H. Zink, Valedictorian ’95, is on the staff of 
inspectors at the Union Stock Yards, Chicago, 111 . 

Dr. Alex. Cowan is practising his profession in the 
city. 

Dr. Martin, M.D., C.M., is delivering special lectures 
on Pathology to the Final Year students, which ar- 
rangement is highly appreciated. 

The genial F. Brennan has left our ranks to en- 
gage in the study of Medicine. 

Messrs. S. C. Richards, ’96, and W. Burns, ’9 7, will 
represent the I H acuity at the A.thletic Association, 
meetings during the session. 

Following are the cla^s officers for this session : 

Third Year.— President, J. A. Ness ; Sec.-Treas. 
E. H. Morris; Class Reporter, E. C. Thurston. 

Second Year.— President, B. A. Sugden., Sec., B. 
Killam ; Class Reporter, W. A. Hilliard. 

First Year.— President, W. L. Bell; Sec., W. B. 
Wallis ; Class Reporter, J. Spanton. 

“ Where’s handsome Harry ? ” is a question the 
Final Year men are asking. 



ATHLETICS. 



This system of ours is a very complex mechanism, and 
to be in perfect running order every part must be perfectly 
balanced. 

A student with a faulty pair of lungS, a cranky digestive 
apparatus, and a torpid liver cannot expect to do himself 
nr his work justice. How many McGill students take pro- 
per exercise? Very few ; for in this day of long hours in 
close lecture theatres, and long evenings spent over his 
books, a man’s animal nature is too often entirely ne- 
glected. 

Now, surely, we can all afford to set aside an hour each 
day for outdoor exercise, don some athletic costume, and 
turn out on the College campus. 

Men are needed on the track, on the turf, and on the 
foot-ball field. Let some of the strong-muscled, big-boned 
men we see strolling aimlessly around during practice hours 
strip off and help to uphold the honor of “ Old McGill ” 
on the field. McGill for some time has been handicapped 
by the lack of weight in the forward line, and yet we have 
material enough in the College to form as heavy, as strong, 
and as active a combination as that of any team in Canada. 

Let the foot-ball enthusiasts work up inter-faculty and 
inter-class matches, and stir up a friendly rivalry. That’s 
the way to develop new material for the teams. Try and 
get the Freshmen out. They are the men of whom the fu- 
ture teams must be largely composed. 

Men of the Freshmen classes, don’t be backward in com- 
ing out. The captains and committees will be glad to wel- 
come you, and give you all the coaching necessary. 

Athletics should boom at McGill. We want three winning 
Rugby teams, a crack Hockey team, an invincible Associa 
tion team, and in the spring line, cricket, base-ball, lacrosse 
and tennis clubs. 

We also want record-breaking runners and jumpers, 
and there is no reason why we shouldn’t have them if each 
man would put his whole heart in the work. 

It is too true that the facilities tor field sports are not as 
good as we could wish ; but the only way to secure belter is 
for each man to turn out, and make further improvements 
an absolute necessity. 

' SPORTS DAY. 

The great event of the fall term at McGill is the annual 
Field Day. It is a day of all-round sport, such as anyone 
and everyone can thoroughly enjoy. 

We hope that on this day every McGill student will lay 
aside his work, loosen up his Chocal chords, turn out on the 
campus and make the Sports boom. 

We look for a close contest this term for the “ Faculty 
Trophy.” Science men claim that they have a “cinch” 
this year ; M edicine probably has something up her sleeve, 
however ; and Arts, though not saying much, no doubt is 
thinking deeply. 

Now, men of every Faculty turn out en masse. To an 
athlete striving to win, nothing is so encouraging as the 
hearty cheers of his class-mates. 

Good order, however, is absolutely necessary for the car- 
rying on of successful events, so let every man not on the 
committee keep outside the ropes. Everybody will then 
have a chance to see. 



FOOT-BALL. 

Mc-G-I-L-L-. What’s the matter with old McGill ? 

Well I guess she’s about all right. 

Five teams in the field and only one defeat. This is a 
record. 

On last Saturday, 12th inst., with ardor unquenched by 
the driving rain, five teams went forth to do battle for their 
Alma Mater, and to hunt the slimy and elusive pig-skin. 
Four teams came back victorious, but one left the scalps 
of its players in the wigwams of the enemy. 

McGill I. vs. Britannia I.’ 

The old Shamrock grounds were wet, decidedly wet ; 



IS 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



they were muddy, very muddy. A few struggling blades 
of grass, and an inviting mud-puddle here and there en- 
livened the scene. It w r as a lovely day for foot-ball. 

From the start McGill went in to win. The Britts never 
had a chance to win. Time and time again our boys had 
the ball behind their goals, and were called back and forced 
to scrimmage. Our wings were too hist and our halves too 
sure of their punts to leave many openings for their oppo- 
nents. 

The game was not a brilliant one, but was amusing in 
the extreme to an onlooker. The men looked more like a 
crowd of “ Dago” laborers than foot-ball players after they 
got through. In fact, it is reported that the owners of the 
grounds are thinking of claiming damages for the amountof 
soil removed by the players. 

At half time the score stood, McGill 7, Britts r. In the 
latter half McGill added 7 more and Britts 1, making 14 
for the College and 2 for Britts. 

As individuals our team played a hard and fast game. 
Levesque and the backs showed up well, especially in quick 
and sure punting. The wings can hardly be improved on, 
and the scrim works like clockwork, but was weakened by 
the absence of Grace ; Dandurand also was not playing. 
The teams were as follows : 

McGill. 

Back 



Brunelle. 

Molson. 

Trenholm Capt. 

Drinkwater. 

Levesque. 

King. 

Howard. 

Alley. 

Wilkinson. 

Tees. 

Turner. 

Moore. 

Schwartz. 

Hill. 

J. Baikley 



Half Back 
Half Back 
Scrimmage 



Wings. 



Britannia. 

W. Jones & Mackay. 
( C. Saunderson. 

I V. Barray. 

(. MacDonald. 

Linton. 

( Carter, 
j Crowley. 

( Vipond. 
f Whitam. 
j McRobie. 
j J. Barry. 

^ N. Barkley. 

| Brown. 

I Reynolds. 

( Alex. Barklay. 



Referee, Mr. V. Bucjjanan. 

Umpire, Mr. F. Jack. 

McGill II. vs. Montreal II. 

Our second ran up against a heavier team, and on a wet 
field couldn’t hold their own. They fought hard, but at 
the finish of the game the score stood 26-4 against them. 
Wever mind, boys, you have another chance yet. Beat the 
record of last year. Score 23 points more than your oppo- 
nents next Saturday, and you stand a good chance of retain- 
ing the championship. 

McGill III. vs. Brittania. 

What’s the matter with our III team? At half time 
Britts were ahead 8-7 At the end of the game it was 34-8 
in favor of McGill. Our boys simply walked all over their 
opponents in the last half, and won an easy victory 
Now for Quebec. Practise hard, boys. Play as a team 



not as individuals, and you can whip that combination I, 
II, III team of Quebec. 

McGill — Back, Patch; half backs, Heustis, McLennan 
and McLeod ; quarter, Burton ; scrim, Ross, Blaylock, 
Burke ; wings, Austin, McFall, Packard, Vipond, Davidson, 
Nichol, Balfour Capt. ; refe,ee, C. Hill. 

A PROPHET IN HIS OWN COUNTRY. 

Few musicians are better known in Montreal than the talented 
violinist, Mr. F. Jehin Prume, and the following letter, addressed to Mr. 
Pratte, Managing Director of The Pratte Piano Co., Ltd., will con- 
vey to Canadians an idea of the high quality of the Pianos made by 
this firm. The following is a photo-engraving of the original manu- 
script. 





















Tfsr' 







^ # 












(Translation). 

Dear Mr. Pratte, Montreal, 19th March, 1S94. 

congratulations on you, 
celebrated makers! Cer ’ ainly Can ** classed with those of the most 

‘ ,eiica " ‘r' h - wi,ich 

'°a »mtr'i ly and ekstidt ^dhe IcYon' 

possessing an insSeSt'iLfetfa e«°”™^ ct ‘ he " to desirous ° f 

With best wishes, 

F. JEHIN PRUME. 



PATERSON & FOSTER 



SOLE 

AGENTS 

FOR 



Reichert’s Microscopes 

Acknowledged to be the beit line in the Dominion 



»•« 



STAINS and ACCESSORIES 
IN STOCK . 



Used in the Bacteriological Laboratories of the 
Royal Victoria and Montreal General Hospitals 

dissecting cases, skeletons, skulls, stethoscopes, THERMOMETERS 

And all Students’ Requirements 

GET our QUOTATIONS' 



