


| MdiILL UNIViJtSiTY 
J MAR .926 
LIBRARY 



The McGill 




”1 

L 















Fortnightly Review 

An Independent Journal of Literature and Student Opinion 



Vol. I. Nos. 9 and 10 



PRICE 20 CENTS Monday, March 22, 1926 



CONTENTS 



EDITORIAL 

Where the Colleges Fail 

What is Hid 

Mr. Mencken 

The Students’ Society Meeting. 

Search 

Pastorale 

Reality 

Evening 

Fabulæ Difficiles 

The Bird 



B. K. Sandwell 

R.S. 

Louis Schwartz 



J. S. Glassco 

Vincent Starr 

. . . Dr. A. S. Eve 
Stella M. Painbridge 



S. 



Puck Song and Half-Light 

Decadence 

A Poem 

A Child’s Garden of Verses. . . 

Discussing Sport 

Trivia 

Two Poems 

Downhill 

A Note on Eugene O’Neill 

The Red and White Revue 

Correspondence 



Margaret Amy Ross 

A. Edel 

. . .A. J. M. Smith 



. .A. P. R. Coulborn 

Simeon Lamb 

Goodridge Macdonald 

Vespasiano 

Leo Edel 

F. R. S. 



EDITORIA L 

W ITH this number the Fortnightly reaches the 
end of Volume I. Whether the year has been 
a successful one or not is for our readers and 
not for us to decide. But we think it only fair to ask 
to be judged, not by the popular conception of what 
it was thought we should be, but by the ambition 
which we set before ourselves. We explained our 
intentions in our first number; they may conveniently 
be restated. First and foremost we have tried to en- 
courage literary work of every sort in prose and poetry. 
The small amount of material offered for publication 
from amongst the undergraduates has been a little 
disappointing, but the student’s life is a busy one, 
and there are not many with the time and the inclina- 
tion to devote themselves to composition. We hope 
we have shown, however, that our original faith has 
been justified, and that there are enough writers in 
the University to make some sort of literary journal 
desirable. Possibly we have been too self-consciously 
a literary journal, losing by this, perhaps, the lighter 
touch, the more humorous element. If this has been 
the case we hasten to assure our readers it is due not 
to the deliberate selection of serious articles only, 
but to the fact that they are the type which the under- 
graduate of McGill seems to feel he must tackle when 
he takes up the pen. Contributions in the Punch trad- 
ition we should seize upon with editorial glee, not 
only for our own sakes, but because they would be 
a most healthy influence within the University. 

The other aim we set before ourselves has been the 
cause of no little antagonism in certain sections of the 
student body. We announced at the outset of our 



career that we should take up an editorial attitude 
on questions of student politics, and we have consist- 
ently done so, regardless of whether or not our attitude 
was likely to be popular. At the same time we stoutly 
deny ever having spoken through sheer contrariness 
or desire to startle; our criticisms aire always based 
on assumptions that are at least arguable. Much of 
the annoyance we have apparently caused is due, we 
feel, to the regrettable fact that there is no tradition 
of criticism at McGill. Such attempts as there have 
been to start independent journals for this purpose 
have generally ended in sudden disaster; the popularity 
which the Literary Supplement won last year would 
have been short-lived if it had ventured into the realm 
which we have dared to enter. That a student paper 
should venture to attack what it disliked, and go on 
attacking it, and still continue to exist — this is for 
some the unpardonable sin. 

Another criticism which has been levelled against 
us, and one which we are more anxious to meet, is 
that our attitude has been one of superiority. If by 
this it is meant that we hold ourselves aloof from the 
affairs of the University, we meet the attack with a 
flat denial. We loathe as heartily as anyone the frame 
of mind of the Pharisee who draws up his skirts and 
passes by on the other side. But if it means that 
we believe ourselves to be in the right and our 
opponents wrong, then we frankly admit that for 
practical purposes we do work on this assumption. 
We have faith in the ideas which we seriously pro- 
pound; we do consider them better than the ideas which 
we attack. This is the sole justification for any form of 
criticism, which must necessarily be a choosing between 



70 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



standards and an affirmation that one standard is 
better than the other. If this cause people to think us 
“superior”, then it is unfortunate, but quite unavoidable. 

We would not close on a note of apology, however. 
On all sides — amongst members of the Faculty, grad- 
uates and undergraduates, — we have met with a cer- 
tain very definite and very valuable assistance which 
we would acknowledge here. Particularly would we 
thank those members of the Faculty who by sending 
us contributions have enabled us to set a standard 
of writing to which undergraduates must strive hard 
to attain; the students who so kindly volunteered 
to collect subscriptions for us last autumn, and those 
who contributed still more effectively for us by writing; 
the Garden City Press, and especially Mr. Munson, 
for dealing most patiently and efficiently with Editors 
all of whom are unbusinesslike (always excepting our 
superlatively able Managing Editor); and finally the 
janitors of the several buildings, who went to consider- 
able trouble to place our copies in the hands of sub- 
scribers. 

And so, gentle readers, we bid you au revoir (for 
we trust it is only that), and we hope that all under- 
graduates will write good examination papers, and 
that all Professors will enjoy correcting them, and 
that everyone will have a long and idle summer holi- 
day, and that next year the Fortnightly will be swamp- 
ed by the number of contributions it receives, and 
that the Editors, whoever they may be, as they prepare 
for Volume II, will still think upon those words of 
Cyrano: 

Ne pas monter bien haut, peut-être, mais tout seul. 

m • • • 



I T has frequently been the experience of the Editors 
to be reproached, or less frequently, praised, for 
opinions expressed in articles published in the Mc- 
Gill Fortnightly Review. This, we feel, is most un- 
toward. A statement appears in each number of the 
Review beneath the list of Editors, saying 

“The Editorial Board is responsible only for opinions 
expressed in the editorial columns, and hopes to 
publish articles on controversial subjects by contribu- 
tors of widely divergent views.” We feel this state- 
ment is tolerably clear; however, if it is not, we would 
hereby state once for all that opinions expressed in 
articles have nothing whatever to do with editorial 
opinion. 

As regards the influence upon the acceptance of 
MSS. of opinions contained therein, we would say this. 
The first requirement for all matter submitted is 
literary merit; granted that, all articles must ‘‘have 
something to say,” and, if serious, must say it at least 
plausibly; if ridiculous, must contain the merit of 
humour. Our readers will have observed that, pur- 
suing this policy, we have indeed been able to realise 
our hope of publishing articles of widely divergent 
views. If there have been some views, current in the 
University, which have not found expression in our 
columns, that is due to the fact that either their ad- 
vocates have been unable to present them in form 
acceptable according to our principles, or that they 
have not seen fit to submit contributions to us at all, 
which may or may not be a reflection upon the views 
themselves. 



Editorial opinion is inevitably the lowest common 
denominator of the views of each of the Editors. It 
is thus frequently the case that an individual Editor 
has written his full opinions in an article. Under such 
circumstances an Editor’s article *is to be considered 
as of exactly the same standing as any other article. 
Editorials alone are ex cathedra. 



• • * # 



T HOUGH we have on more than one occasion 
criticised the actions of the Students’ Council 
during the past year, it would be unjust and 
ungrateful to let Basil Maclean retire from his two 
years’ tenure of the office of president without endeav- 
ouring to express something of the very real feeling 
of cordiality which his sincere and unsparing effort? 
on behalf of what he believes to be the best interests 
of the University have awakened in the minds of all 
interested in the administration of student affairs. 
The good of the undergraduate body as a whole is 
the sole motive that has ever actuated Maclean while 
president of the Council, and if, as we think, he has 
in one or two cases misunderstood what is best for the 
Students’ Society, it will be more fitting at the present 
time to look at those instances where he has undoubt- 
edly placed us all under an obligation. The Student 
Directory, the Summer Employment Bureau, and the 
very complete arrangements made for the comfort of 
students in hospitals are instances of this. The greatest, 
however, is the tradition that he will leave behind him. 
There have been few presidents who have worked 
harder, more unselfishly or with more real ability than 
Basil Maclean. He has never shown favouritism in 
any form whatever. His interests have been many- 
sided, and he has given sympathy and support to 
many wide-spread activities. Whoever is elected to 
take his place will have the advantage of his example 
and the disadvantage of inevitable comparison. 



# * • • 



W E have been interested in the formation of the 
Campus Problem Groups. But we are wonder- 
ing whether they are the direct product of a 
spontaneous desire for discussion or whether they 
have been artificially created by two or three enthusi- 
asts. At any rate, they are a good sign of the times, 
and they may become the nucleus for the growth of 
an influential body of opinion at McGill. We hope 
that they are a further evidence of the birth of a new 
criticism, healthy and self-examining. 

In remarking on the Campus Problem Groups, 
we should like to suggest that the meetings be not 
reported in the Daily by a reporter sent from that 
organ. The article in the Daily should come from the 
pen of the leader of the group or some person specially 
elected at the meeting for the purpose. No one at- 
tending such groups should feel that he will be 
quoted verbatim. He should be able to consider him- 
self untrammeled in the expression of different points 
of view, which would not necessarily be his own. After 
all, these groups are discussion groups, and not mass 
meetings organized with the intention of passing a 
number of resolutions. 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



71 



Where the Colleges Fail 

B. K. Sandwell 

I 331 going down to New York next month to tell 
the Rockefeller foundation how higher education 
ought to be sold on this progressive North American 
continent. The present methods are mediaeval. I am 
aware that the college industry seems to be growing, 
but at what a paltry rate! I do not suppose the annual 
crop of graduates increases faster than two per cent, 
per annum, while the sugar consumption goes up five 
per cent., the rubber consumption twelve, and the 
moving picture expenditure twenty-seven. If we don’t 
do better than this we shall soon be turning out more 
bootleggers than bachelors of arts. 

It is all due to defective salesmanship. The article 
the college sells is all right; it is just about what the 
public wants. It is a nice standardised product, all 
parts interchangeable, a child can use it, there is 
nothing to get out of order, it requires no attention 
after purchase, and it pays for itself in five years. 
It is comfortable; in fact you hardly know you have 
one, and women take to it as readily as men. There is 
as yet no successful substitute for it, and no competitive 
product. If the steamship lines had brains enough to 
grant a diploma to anybody who spent two or three 
years running round the world, I suspect they could 
get away quite a bit of the university business (John 
Smith, L.C.P., F.N.G.L., would sound rather good — 
Licentiate of the Canadian Pacific, Fellow of the 
North German Lloyd) ; but they won’t do that for a 
few years yet. So it isn’t the goods that are wrong; 
it is the method of marketing them. 

It is universally recognised that this is the age of 
the consumer. He can sit tight while the producer 
hustles round and tries to sell him things. But the 
universities are still sitting tight and demanding that 
the consumer come to them. Why should a college 
insist that the purchaser of education come to a certain 
definite place and spend a certain definite time getting 
it? There is no reason, expect that they did it in 
Bologna in 1500 and in Oxford in 1600. And here we 
are in North America in 1926! If I want cheese I do 
not have to go to a cheese factory; I telephone the 
grocer and he sends it up. If I want religion I do not 
have to go to church; I tune in my radio set and get 
two sets of prayers and sermon every Sunday. If I 
want an automobile — but I do not even have to want 
one; if I have money enough to buy one, a score of 
agents will camp on my doorstep and teach me to want 
the kind they have to sell. But with education it is 
not so. The only people who are doing anything to 
“sell” education are the football players. They are 
doing noble work, especially when we consider how 
few samples they carry. But they can’t do it all. 

What is needed, as I propose to tell the Rockefeller 
Foundation, is first of all a merger of all the universities 
and colleges on the continent into one vast University 
of North America, of which the existing institutions 
will be branches. This should present very little trou- 
ble. The saving in operating costs alone will be some- 
thing inconceivable, something fantastic. Uniform 
textbooks all over the continent; a single examination 
paper in each course to be written by students from 
Maine to California and Prince Albert to Tia Juana; 
centralised manufacture of gowns, hoods, diplomas 



and football togs; uniform architecture for all future 
buildings; constant inspection of operations at each 
plant (pardon me, college) by expert cost-reducers 
from head office; a consolidated advertising and sell- 
ing department— these are only a few of the main 
lines of economy. 

But the great gain will be the enormous improve- 
ment in the delivery of the article produced. Every 
branch will be giving exactly the same lectures at 
the same hour all over the continent. An education 
can thus be acquired anywhere and everywhere 
The student can take the first six lectures in Philosophy 
2 at McGill in September, then move southward 
with the family in the Rolls-Royce or the Ford and 
take the seventh at Amherst, the eighth at Harvard, 
the ninth and tenth at Yale, a few more at Columbia 
and so on down the line till he writes the Christmas 
exam at Miami. (Students in certain courses will 
have to detour round Tennessee.) New Yorkers can 
sit on Tuesday and Thursday at Columbia and on 
Saturday at McGill, and thus participate weekly in 
the important silk-and-alcohol commerce at Rouses 
Point. Hockey players will flock north while tennis 
enthusiasts are going south. It will be possible to 
get an education while travelling in lingerie, or quali- 
fymg for a divorce, or hunting big game in the Rockies. 

i he Rockefeller Foundation ought to appreciate all 
this, if anybody should. What is it, after all, but 
applying the gasoline pump system to what is, next 
to gasoline and tires, the most important luxury 
article in America? The college buildings will have 
to be brightened up a little with electric lights and 
gilt paint; but at McGill the Roddick Gates, and at 
Toronto the Memorial Arch, can easily be made to 
look like a filling station. The only objection that 
has ever been made to this proposal was raised by a 
non-academic person, who pointed out that the pro- 
fessors would not know the students, nor the students 
the professors. I communlicated this objection 
to a professor, who at once replied, “Who wants to 
know students?” and to an undergraduate student 
who even more promptly answered, “Thank goodness 
for that! Who wants to know professors?” 



What is Hid 



W HEN you lift a pale flower 
To your face, 

I know a poet has little power 
To paint such grace. 

When in a hushed alcove 
We touch, and touch, 

I know a poet writing of love 
Is silent overmuch. 

Poets make stars of what is hid 
For men to wonder at. 

Yet the quiver of an eyelid 
Is more than that. 



R. S. 



72 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



Mr. Mencken 

Louis Schwartz 

P OMPOUS academic critics with a touch of frost 
about the temples have not yet reconciled them- 
selves to this enfant terrible of American letters. 
To some he is a diabolical boy with a bean-shooter, 
popping at everything in sight and amazingly accurate 
of aim; to others he is a smart Aleck mouthing the 
argot of his tribe; to still others he is inspired by the 
Wilhelmstrasse to introduce discord into the Anglo- 
American entente, a boor with an endless now ot 
vituperative language, a curious mixture of pedantry 
and journalism, a wind-bag of sound and fury, a blatant 
pcsturer shouting at the top of his lungs. For Mr. 
Mencken is irreverent, violent, and barbaric, rie 
preaches contumacy toward God, the laws, the clergy , 
the politicians, the courts, the polizei, the professors, 
and the farmers. He denounces religion, poetry, and 
romantic love as lies and delusions. He proclaims the 
hero of contemporary civilization and he avows a 
yearning to see “the whole human race gently stewed 
and thereby happy. The college pundits shudder at 

^ Despite these pale, professorial shadows of English 
critics, H. L. Mencken, to-day, is to a respectable 
minority the voice of his era. From the half-fabulous 
Antichrist of Baltimore, whose name, it is said, was 
used by exasperated mothers to cow naughty children, 
he has risen to be one of the most important publicists 
in America, editor of a powerful and widely-circulated 
magazine, the creator of a new sort of writing. His 
peculiar prejudices and animadversions on the pageant 
of Life are written in Americanese of a racy bump- 
tiousness so vivacious and interesting that he is eagerly 
followed by a large number of people. He is, moreover, 
training a surprisingly large group of youngsters, who 
should be the future makers of American literature, 
in a new type of criticism. Himself one of the bel- 
ligerent young generation”, at forty-five Mencken is 
essentially a young man’s critic, violent and destruc- 
tive. 

But how does one account for his tremendous popu- 
larity? His cardinal theory— his original principle^ 
simply stated, is that Americans as a whole, that is, 
his reading public, are lewd fellows of the baser sort. 
Consider such tremendous pulpit-thrashing as this: 
“The American people, taking them by and large, 
are the most timorous, sniveling, poltroomsh, 
ignominious mob of serfs and goose-steppers ever 
gathered under one flag in Christendom since the 
fall of the Eastern Empire.” 

Surely this is not complimentary to the people of 
“these United States”. Curiously enough, however, 
this candid opinion is greeted with cries of joy and 
exultation. “This is trenchant criticism, they shout 
to one another. “He is exactly the kind of man we 
are needing, an iconoclast, a fearless critic unafraid 
to attack,” they cry gleefully and each poltroon, serf, 
boob and coward smiles with delight and congratulates 
himself on belonging to the “civilized minority . It 
is little wonder, then, that Mencken appeals so strongly 
to undergraduates. Are they not opposed to professors, 
to religion, to morality? Mencken denounces with 
mordant acidity and vehement invective the rule of 
the rabble. Armed with the Nietzschean doctrine, 
he has crusaded tirelessly against the conventional 



dogmas of American thought and the conventional 
lies of American life. He is loud in demanding the rule 
of the fittest. And are not college men the fittest? It 
is only natural, then, that the American Mercury should 
be the intellectual diet of undergraduates. 

As a critic, Mencken is plainly destructive. His 
hatred of the hokum and buncombe which Americans 
applaud is too genuine and too intense to permit him 
to be governed by the accepted norms of polite criti- 
cism. He is not what is called “sympathetic”, his criti- 
cism deals but little with people from their own point 
of view. He simply brings the other man’s statements 
and reactions to the bar of his own dogma, and having 
judged them by that measure, proceeds to accept or 
reject them. Criticism with him is an exploiting of 
his own preconceptions and aversions, not an honest 
following of the truth, lead where it may. On this 
Mencken himself says: 

“The plain truth is— and how could it be plainer?— 
that I practise criticism for precisely the same 
reason that every other critic practises it: because 
I am a vain fellow and have a great many ideas 
on all sorts of subjects and like to put them 
into words and harass the human race with them. 

If I could confine this flow of ideas to one subject 
I’d be a professor and get some respect. If I 
could reduce it, say, to one idea a year, I’d be a 
novelist, a dramatist, or a newspaper editorial 
writer. But being unable to staunch the flux, 
and having, as I say, a vast and exigent vanity, 

I am a critic of books, and through books of Homo 
sapiens, and through Homo sapiens of God.” 

He is a critic of beautiful letters but they must be 
in prose. Poetry, he holds, is written and appreciated 
only by the mentally immature, the undeveloped, 
the morons. There again, criticism is not written in 
superlatives; it does not roar in Rooseveltian stren- 
uousness. He derives a fiendish glee in damning with 
a crackle of superlatives some tinsel god of the Poo- 
boisie. He is positively final and autocratically dog- 
matic in his generalizations, and this is not criticism 
but buffoonery. The trouble with him is that he is 
obsessed with journalistic contemporaneousness. The 
journalist must “put his stuff across” or fail miserably, 
and Mr. Mencken is preeminently a journalist, with 
the journalist’s point of view. 

He displays, however, a sincere respect for the gen- 
uine artist. If he recognizes integrity in obscure work 
he will fight hard for it. Let a book be damned by 
the prudes and he will rush in as its champion. 
He fought for Dreiser, for Cabell, and for Sherwood 
Anderson— all considered leading American writers 
to-day. Courageous to the point of braggadocio», 
he cheerfully insults our organized moralities. He is 
forever flaying the scourge of puritanism— “the vir- 
tuoso of virtue”, the “moral expert”, the professional 
“smuthound” and has set himself to destroy “its power 
to boycott, devitalize, and suppress every artistic 
manifestation which has seemed to threaten the omnis- 
cience and omnipotence of “Primitive Methodism”. 
Pointing with pride to a digestion ruined by alcohol, 
he is particularly violent over Prohibition. He used 
to belong to a club in Baltimore which met every 
Saturday night in the back room of the workshop of 
a repairer of musical instruments. The club had to 
be abandoned after prohibition because two members 
died of the ill effects of near-beer 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



73 



His prime quality, however, is his craftsmanship 
as a writer. It is his method and style that have made 
Mencken famous. Daring and brilliant, his work is 
easily read. His treatises on philosophy and philology, 
unsatisfactory as academic contributions, are clearly 
intelligible to the layman. He has a Rabelaisian delight 
in the roll and swing of words of strange coinage. It 
has been said of him that “he is the Paul Whiteman 
of our letters. He has jazzed prose, playing with heter- 
odox virtuosity in two or three tempos at the same 
time, lugging in skilful discord and daring juxtaposi- 
tion, pounding out his vigorous, hybrid style with 
extraordinary ease and effectiveness. Mr. Mencken 
splashes around in his vocabulary as happily as a 
street urchin in a public fountain”. His blasts sound 
like the rumble of revolutionary tumbrils. Concern- 
ing his motive as a critic he has this to say: 

“When I denounce a book with mocking and 
contumely, and fall upon the poor author in the 
brutal, Asiatic manner of a drunken longshore- 
man, a Ku Kluxer, or a midshipman at Annapolis, 

I an only saying that the fellow disgusts me — that 
his ideas and and manners are somehow obnoxious 
to me as those of a Methodist, a golf-player, or a 
clog-dancer are obnoxious to me — in brief, that I 
hold myself to be a great deal better than he is, 
and am eager to say so”. 

Mencken’s, undoubtedly, is the most raucous and 
the most arresting voice to-day. He is the civilized 
consciousness of modern America, its learning, its 
intelligence and its taste, realizing the grossness of 
its manners and mind and crying out in horror and 
chagrin. What an idol for the undergraduate! 



The Students * Society Meeting 

T HE Students’ Society meeting held last Wednes- 
day revealed at once how easily sqch a presuma- 
bly democratic gathering can be made the 
instrument of mob tyranny, and how far McGill is 
from being free from such a danger. Political theorists, 
if any of that all too rare species were at the meeting, 
must have found there much food for thought. Two 
motions were discussed: one proposed a referendum 
for the purpose of showing just how much opposition 
there is to the athletic levy, the other suggested the 
strengthening of the Union’s feeble finances by in- 
creasing its grant by the sum of 25c to be taken from 
the amount now allotted to the Undergraduate 
Societies. The first motion was discussed and voted 
on much as motions should be at any meeting and it 
was passed by a small majority. The second motion 
disclosed at once why the room was packed with a 
number of faces seldom seen in the precincts of the 
Union. The Medical Undergraduate Society had 
decided, after previous discussion as a faculty, that 
if twenty-five cents were taken from them by the vote 
of students anxious to save the Union, they would 
be the poorer by twenty-five cents. Having reached 
this momentous conclusion, they paraded at the 
meeting to see justice done. It is not certain whether 
they had previously annouced that defaulters would be 
punished; appearances would indicate that they had. 
At any rate neither Mr. Godine’s sane plea for a vote 
on the merits, nor Mr. Jamieson’s description of the 
financial situation of the Union, nor any arguments 
that could be discovered, were able to effect the 
smallest change in the attitude of a group that had 



come prepared to defeat the motion irrespective of 
anything that might be said in its defence. 

We are not denying that there was an arguable case 
against the motion — indeed, it would have seemed 
to us more fitting to have suggested taking the twenty- 
five cents for the Union from the ten dollars that is 
devoted to athletics — but we do most strongly object 
to the methods adopted by those opposed to it. 
Faculty spirit was evoked at the expense of university 
loyalty, and that spirit was not only narrowly self- 
interested but one which seemed to find its best and 
most appropriate expression in half-hearted attempts 
to shout down opposing speakers. 

Search 

J. S. Glas sco 

W HAT is it we seek? Is it beauty? Is it honour? 
Is it happiness? The bubbles go racing through 
the wine and vanish. We raise it to our lips .... 
Through the window we see the yellow leaves of the 
plane-tree, drifting in the autumn breeze. Soon the 
trees will be stripped and bare. Another will hold 
this self-same cup, will ask the self-same question: 
What is it we seek? One after another, things pass 
away .... But there is something there, and we cannot 
find it. 

The small, unhappy boy, impatient of his youth — 
he wants to be a man, or perhaps an engine-driver. 
He is an engine-driver. Is he satisfied? No; the stations 
and the signals flash by. The day finishes and starts 
again. He peers ahead, still seeking the elusive answer. 
Moments come when, blinded by beauty and ecstasy, 
we have found it. But alas! they pass. This is not 
what we are looking for . . . These are but pin-pricks 
in the vast carcase of our being. So we go on, searching, 
backwards and forwards, up and down. We listen for 
sounds and portents. We peer into the eyes of our 
fellows. Do they know? Have they found it? No; 
they are peering into ours for the self-same reason. 
They cannot find it. They, too, are searching and 
waiting. The priest is talking of God, and we nod 
knowingly. The philosopher repeats something he 
has read in a book written by a Greek three thousand 
years ago, and we say: “Yes. Well?” The scientist 
dissects a beetle, and makes something go faster or 
slower, and we murmur, “Wonderful, wonderful!” The 
artist throws the shadow of his various calf-loves 
on the screen, and we applaud him, because for a 
moment he diverts us, and gives a vague hope that 
we may stumble across it. Whatever it is, it must be 
the most wonderful thing in the world, because it 
is so intensely believed in 



Pastorale 

T HE bellow of the lusty bull 
Astounds the timid cow 
That standeth in the meadow cool 
Where cuccu singeth nu, 

And holdeth her in mystic trance 
Beneath the timeless trees 
While ebon-bellied shad-flies dance 
About her milk-white knees, 

And sets her dreaming of the Groom 
That doth attend his bride, 

Until she lows for him to come 
And fawn upon her side. 

—Vincent Stan 



74 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



Reality 

Dr. A. S. Eve 



T HERE is no more perplexing question than 
whether some thing or some idea is or is not 
real. It is easy to admit that all experience is 
real, and if we do not admit it then a raging toothache 
makes a strong advocate of reality, but it must be 
remembered that the reality of pain is not admitted 
by a powerful section of the community. Indeed the 
intrepid Bréboeuf and the dauntless girl martyr of 
Lyons testify to the conquest of pain by the exalted 
spirit of man or of woman. 

It is easy to deny the reality of anything except 
perhaps the consciousness of the individual. There 
is something so abominably egotistical, so ludicrously 
exaggerated, in the view that I alone exist, and that 
the existence of all else depends upon my consciousness, 
sleeping when I sleep, dying when I die, that most men 
would rather be called ugly names like “naive realist 
than succumb to the conviction of an absolutely 
self-centred idealist. 

It is the glory of science that it selects as real those 
things which exist in common in the experience of 
mankind. Every idea which can be put to the proof, 
not by one, but by many, which as Herschel said 
“emerges triumphant from every test of fair discus- 
sion,” that is the body of knowledge which claims the 
title of truth. 

It is not denied that there is knowledge outside the 
borders of what is now called science. We pass from 
the sublime heights of clear sunshine into the shadowy 
valleys of values where men grope uncertainly and 
with small guidance for the pearls of great price, for 
that which is infinite in possibility and priceless in 
possession, the immortal gifts of the spirit. 

Those who love to explore the border line between 
science and religion will do well to read “Science, 
Religion, and Reality,” edited by J. Needham, and 
published by the Sheldon Press. The preface is written 
by Lord Balfour who elegantly poises on the philosophic 
fence. He states, “Thus to set limits to reality must 
always be the most hazardous of speculative ad- 
venture. To do so by eliminating the spiritual is not 
only hazardous but absurd. For if we are directly 
aware of anything, it is of ourselves as personal agents, 
if anything can be proved by direct experiment it 
is that we can, in however small a measure, vary the 
“natural” distribution of matter and energy. We can 
certainly act on our environment, and as certainly 
our action can never be adequately explained in terms 
of entities which neither think, nor feel, nor purpose, 
nor know. It constitutes a spiritual invasion of the 
physical world, — it is a miracle.” 

Might not all this be said not only of men, but of 
mice, of mosquitoes, of dogs, of amoebae? All of these 
may claim to vary the “natural” distribution of matter 
and energy. ^ 

Eddington’s article on “The Domain of Natural 
Science” is an interesting statement of the viewpoint 
of a leading relativitist. He claims that “making 
up your mind” does not infringe the “identical” laws 
of nature, such as conservation of energy, mass, 
gravitation, etc., but that this process may interfere 
with the “statistical laws” such as the second law 
f Thermodynamics, or of course with transcendental 



laws, laws not yet understood, e.g. quanta, and of 
course with laws not yet discovered! But indeed 
he is very frank in admitting that human consciousness 
is outside the cycle of physics. The driver of a four 
horse coach knows full well who are pulling the coach 
and where the energy comes, but the slightest touch 
of a rein may end in ditch and disaster, or in safety 
and the journey’s end. 

The conclusion of the great Dean Inge is worth 
the rest of the book. He frankly states that he writes 
as a Christian, but surely one of the most truth- 
loving since the Immortal Founder. 

The late Lord Rayleigh stated that “there is not 
and never could be any conflict between true science 
and true religion;” this is generally admitted, but 
we are yet a long way from truth in either. The wars 
between religions have always been more bloody, 
more lasting, and more terrible than the skirmishes 
between religion and science. Yet to quote Inge; 

“Those Churchmen who airily declare that there 
is no longer any conflict between Christianity and 
science are either very thoughtless or are wilfully 
shutting their eyes. There is a very serious conflirt 
and the challenge was presented not in the age o { 
Darwin, but in the age of Copernicus and Galileo. - 

However the conflict today is guerilla warfare, 
and there has been more vehemence in the small 
rifts of the Presbyterian Church, some years ago 
in Scotland, and more recently in Canada, than in 
that mightier worldwide arena where conflict or peace 
still hang in the balance between religion and science. 

One ground is common to both. Religion and 
Science are both hostile to loss of freedom and to 
superstition. Not merely may we so deteriorate that 
“our brains may follow our teeth, claws and fur,” 
but “the temptation to confound accumulated know- 
ledge and experience with intrinsic process is almost 
irresistible; but it must be resisted. It is quite un- 
necessary to go to Australia or Central Africa to find 
the savage; he is our next-door neighbour* The 
mentality of the stone-age exists on our platforms and 
in our pulpits. There is no superstition too absurd to 
find evidence in modem England: fetishes and tabus 
dominate London drawing rooms.” 

Inge has no doubt that the religion of Christ can 
and will weather the storm, and the outlook seems 
to the writer hopeful provided there is a return to 
the religion of the Founder from which we appear 
to have wandered so far and so unwisely. 

Inge is shrewd enough to know that Einstein’s 
relativity theories can never prove or disprove material- 
ism, or the converse; and he adds, “In fact, I am still 
unconvinced that it has much importance either 
for the metaphysician or for the theologian.” 

Yet there is a wide difference between the “absolutes” 
of Newton and the “relatives” of Einstein, and this 
difference is pervading the human understanding 
with the potency of novelty. 

One great drawback exists today — the philosophers 
do not know enough science, and the men of science 
are largely ignorant of philosophy. Hence the great 
subject of the Philosophy of Science is like a neglected 



* Wily Dean! Are we not all someone’s next-door 
neighbour? 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



75 



garden choked with weeds, and there are no adequate 
gardeners. Here is a great region for a pure and ardent 
spirit, who can think, learn and speak a clear 
language. 

As Inge says: “We must remember that religion, 
like some chemical substance, is never found pure, 
and it is not at all easy to isolate it in order to learn 
its properties. Just as it is difficult to separate 
religion from magic in the beliefs and practices of 
savages, so the difficulty is not less among civilized 
people. Religious beliefs always impinge upon natural 
science. 

1 he whole article must be read to secure the wise 
°„ broad sympathy of the Dean, who though 
called gloomy,' actually emits a radiant and 
beneficent light. 

Leonardo da Vinci said, “The study of Nature is 

Sn- ~ i easin 8 .to God, and is akin to prayer 

Who knows little, loves little. If you love the Creator 
lor the favour you expect of Him, and not for His 
most high goodness and strength, wherein do you 
excel the dog, who licks his master's hand in the 
i?Pj < ^ ain ^^ es ? But reflect how that worthy beast, 
the dog, would adore his master if he could comprehend 
his reason and his soul.'' 

Thus spoke Four Centuries ago, Hear Today! 

Whether our dogs would respect us more if they 
knew us better may be sertously doubted; but I think 
we may say of natural science what Bacon said of 
philosophy, that while a little knowledge often estranges 
men from religion, a deeper knowledge brings them 

u- to though we may add that the religion to 
which deeper knowledge brings us is not the same as 
that from which superficial knowledge estranges us.” 



Everting 



r "J~ 1 HROUGH the swift hours the world's great painter 

Hath splashed the canvas with his colours gay — 
blame of the da wiling, amber of riotous noontide, 
Rainbow hues of the sun's last dying pride 
And now, as a weary child tired with hours of play 
Into the golden valley hath flung his paints away. 



The silent meadows wait in breathless hush 
As dusk-clad Evening, with her quiet brush, 

Bathes m mist the gaudy palette of the Day 
And etches all the land in tender gray, 

While the sweet incense which the hours have wrung 
brom sunlit woods and flowers, about her form is flung. 



Black silhouette against the paling sky 
An elm-tree stands in loneliness on high, 

And tangled in its meshes, one white star 
Hangs— Night's first beacon in the cloud-swept bar — 
And in the deepest shadows dancing fireflies gleam 
Like jewelled necklace broken in a fairy dream. 



Here would I choose to fold my hands and pray 
When my last sun is setting, and in gray 
Death tones the garish canvas of my hours. 

Here would I lay me, with the grass and flowers, 
One with all things living, hid in the earth I love. 
While my soul wings beyond the stars, to God above! 



— Stella M. Bainbridge 



Fabulae Difficiles 

T HE following have been selected by Vespasiano 
from an interesting Ms., which has lately come 
into his possession. The Ms., is entitled: “Fabulæ 
Romulo et Remo a vulpe matre pia narratæ.” Unlike 
most such documents, it is actually dated, A.U.C.O. 
It will be noted by those interested in folklore that 
the selections shed an interesting light upon the origin 
of the age-old English nursery rhymes. 

The crudity of certain lines is not surprising at 
such an early date. 

• • • • 

P arvulus Johannes Honorius 

Parvulus in latebis consedit Honorius ille 
Et crustum Christi festum festivus edebat: 
Extraxit crusto, perpulso pollice, prunum : 
Clamavit nunquam quam se puerum meliorem. 

• • # • 

Très Mures Cæci 

Hercule! Très mures cæci! Velociter errant: 
Quærunt uxorem mortiferam agricolæ. 

Heu! Caudas tenues discindit falce cruenta! 

Ut temararia tarn parva animalia sint. 



Bacchanalia 

Euœ! feles ululant: Strepitusque lyrarum: 
Mox etiam lunam vacca super saluit. 

Ipse canis risit parvus, quod talia visit, 
Discus enim furcam corripuit cupide. 



The Bird 

B REAST-BONE and ribs enmesh 
A bird in a cage 
Covered for the night with flesh 
To still his vocal rage. 

Curb his wild ardour, and 
Circumscribe his wing 
Till One shall unwind the band 
And let the door swing. 

Who now unseen and 
Inarticulate awaits 
One to unwind the band 
And open the gates. 

Free then of the flesh hood 
And the cage of bone, 

Singing again a good 
Song, I shall be gone 

Into that far and wild 
Where once I sang 
Before the flesh beguiled 
And the trap was sprung. 



— 5 . 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



76 



Puck Song 

(Puck of Pook’s Hill) 

W HEN I came into Angleland, upon the 

[driven wind, 
With charms of brimstone devilry 
And thunder bolts and revelry, 

A thousand leaping kelpies in the sea waves 

[swam behind. 

For all we folk fled angrily, 

We rent the air with blasphemy, 

And magicked up a thousand fires 
That flamed across the coast, 

Some flitted for the hills with me, 

And others, heathen gods would be, 

But all were filled with infamy, 

A wild storm-riven host. 

Thus sweeping inland from the sea, 

We lit the downs of Pevensey, 

And claimed the hills our own. 

While all the little painted Piets, 

In terror of our knavish tricks, 

Were hiding in the gorse and broom, 

And left us there alone. 

* 

And so we practised magic there, 

And lightning made to raise men’s hair, 
Although they cursed we did not care 
So brazen we had grown. 

Time came when all the Piets were dead, 
And folk in housen tilled the land, 

The blue smoke by the river bed, 

Curled to the heavens overhead, 

In merry Angleland. 

And with the dews at shadow-fall. 

We heard the reddened hearth stones call, 
And stole to housen folk, 

And some if in good faith we’d be, 

Would brew and bake right willingly, 

Or others lead the sheep astray, 

The shepherds to provoke. 

For I’ve wheeled many a horse around, 

And spilled an abbott to the ground. 

Or set a fox upon the hound. 

Should thus my humour please. 

Midsummer night we loved the best, 

We gave the sottish monks no rest, 

Around their Monastry we pressed, 

And stole their wines and cheese. 

Oh, I have seen what I have seen, 

Of horseshoes, rings, and running water, 

And I have been where I have been, 

And I have loved a witch’s daughter, 

And runes together chanted we, 

I crowned her with the rowanberry. 

Time was, when all the hills were young, 
Blue veiled with woodey walks. 

Where golden throats had sung. 

With feet that danced down summer, 
Through sunshine and through rain; 

But spinning wheels and homespun, 

Will never come again. 



I have hid in brambles, 

Or lain in smoking turf, 

I have borne the troubles, 

That have made me England’s serf, 

Seen her in her battles, 

Seen her midst her strife, 

Seen her in the golden age, 

Drunk with wine of life. 

Clash of sword and soldiery, 

Blood on bracken shed, 

Black birds in the chill of dawn, 

Ravaging the dead, 

Fiercely bled the Anglemen, 

Wild they grew, and bold, 

While we folk among the hills, 

Were getting very old. 

Growing old, growing cold, 

While their foes bereave them, 

Iron and gold within their hold, 

So we perforce must leave them. 

God Thor, 

Old and hoar, 

Called to us to follow, 

With cries and wails, 

They fled the vales, 

And rose by hill and hollow. 

I could not go, 

I would not go, 

Alone I watched them flying, 

As they came in, so went they out, 

And set the four winds sighing. 

So I the oldest thing on earth, 

The oldest old thing ever bom, 

Remained to foster Angleland, 

By oak, and ash, and thorn. 

And I shall dwell in Angleland, 

Or ever the ages fly, 

Till these three sacred things shall fall. 
And Woden with his mighty call. 

Shall lead me out to die. 

Margaret Amy Ross 



Half Light 

Have you felt sorrow in the throbbing night? 
And a hurt silence. 

Felt the tense thrust of time across the still 
Depths of drowsed darkness. 

Was it a meteor hurled beyond the hill, 

That dazed your waking with its fleeting light? 
And left a sky of infinite loneliness. 

Have you not felt the unearthly sense, 

Of a once loved presence, 

Crowding across the shadows to your heart, 
And stretched your hand forth seeking half in fear 
A ghostly clasp. Only an empty dawn, 

A song bird beating back the mists, 

At heavens rampart. 

Margaret Amy Ross 






The McGill Fortnightly Review 



77 



Decadence 

A. Edel 

A friend of mine once related to me a dream that 
he had had the previous night. 

It seemed to him that he was standing in a strange 
and unknown room. It was hot and stifling. His 
head was swimming and his consciousness seemed ever 
on the point of leaving. A thick mist hung over him, 
and swooping down, enveloped him. Confused noises 
were ringing in his ears, nor could he distinguish the 
sounds in that tumult. Then suddenly it was all cleared 
away. The mist was gone but the noise continued. 
He heard Words — thousands upon thousands of 
them — no coherence, no unity. They circled about 
him and started piling up, one upon the other forming 
a wall around him. He stopped to read them — Effi- 
ciency, Banner Year, Humanity, Executive, Radio, 
Jazz, Bootlegger, Art for Art’s Sake, Relativity, • 
Bolsheviki, Charleston, Evolution, Psycho-analysis, 
Proportional Representation, Compulsory Lectures, 
Classicism, European Students, Elections . . . They 
came on faster and faster. Higher grew the wall. It 
was beginning to enclose him. It seemed as if the 
words would never cease. He beat against them with 
his fists, but to his dismay he found them to be solid 
brick. Each word was a little brick. And now he him- 
self was being struck by the flying weights. The wall 
had reached his height and was closing over. He was 
suffocating. He shrieked for help. He fainted. He 
awoke. . . . 

« # * 

Though I lay no claim for election to the position 
of a soothsayer I concede that this wild fantasy admits 
of a very ready explanation. We are, it is true, 
literally surrounded by words at the present time. All 
about us they come — some in slow winding streams 
through fruitful fields of thought, others pouring down 
precipitously without set purpose. In all these torrents 
that empty into our present age, is there anything 
sensible, even slightly original, or at least flavouring 
of originality? Or are we merely copying and acting 
as mouth-pieces for the past, or what is worse, saying, 
but meaning nothing? 

Every period of progress, of real advance in 
civilization has been inevitably followed by a time of 
stagnation. It seemed that the intellect of man had 
been drained and was now devoid of resource — that 
the effort of creation had overcome the creative power. 
It is the old question of fin-de-siècle. It occurs in 
movements, great and small, in schools of thought, 
and then in whole periods of history. It is the oscilla- 
tion of the pendulum to and fro, sometimes quickly, 
sometimes slowly, sometimes with irregular movement, 
sometimes steadily. There is no assurance of its course, 
but this much is certain that for every crest of a wave 
there is a hollow, for every height there is a depth, 
and that human history is a cursory motion over hill 
and valley. This may seem contrary to any doctrine 
of progress, but it really is not so, for what is done 
cannot be undone, and when a renaissance follows a 
decline, it is able to build on over the height of 
ancient grandeur. 

It is another question as to whether this intellect- 
tual oscillation is the result of material causes. Here 
is room for an economic interpretation of the course 
of history. But the causes do not concern us at 
present. Suffice it to say that a Silver Age necessarily 



follows a Golden Age in any and every collective effort 
of human mind. What then are its characteristics? 

It must be remembered that in using the term 
Silver Age we do not refer to a complete degeneration, 
an entire cessation of intellectual effort. But by far 
the most prominent feature of such periods is lack 
of originality — a strange antithesis to the period of 
fruitful production which preceded it. 

“But”, someone will interrupt, “your argument is 
entirely fallacious. Look at Alexandria in the Hellen- 
istic period of Greek culture. Where before that time 
did such genius burst forth in the field of science? 
And yet it is generally conceded to be the Silver Age 
of Greek civilization.” 

True, we must admit. Far be it from us to be- 
little Eratosthenes, Euclid, Ptolemy and a host of 
others. But if science was at its height at that time, 
it simply means that it was not the Silver Age of the 
scientific movement. But the period is called Hell- 
enistic to show that in general it lacked that brilliance, 
that creative energy and vitality which had charact- 
erized the Hellenic Age. The purity of expression 
was gone. In practically every branch of effort there 
seemed to have been a descent. Such, it is generally 
claimed, are the Skeptics and Cynics, and the Academ- 
ics and Peripatetics after Plato and Aristotle. Tragedy 
shows no really great names. Comedy may have one 
or two. Art, as a whole, though in certain respects it 
may have become more finished in many ways was 
really and truly finished. The true spirit of originality 
was lacking. Genius seemed worn threadbare. Science 
was, perhaps, the exception, but that is the difficulty 
in attempting to judge whole periods of history as 
forming a Silver Age. It would be much better to 
consider the separate movements. However, a general 
statement can usually be made concerning the age 
as a whole and the verdict of time on the Hellenistic 
period is that it was a Silver Age. 

What impresses us most in surveying that period is 
the immensity of the literary output — thousands of 
volumes, encyclopaedias, commentaries, collections, 
compilations, investigations of detail. Perhaps it was 
the influence of the scientific spirit. The contribution 
was great, and we must not fail to recognize such 
achievements. But as we have said before there is in 
such periods little or nothing truly creative. One 
would think that all possible ideas have already been 
expressed. And so it comes about that the Form is 
emphasized at the expense of the Content. For if 
the material is the same only a change of Form will 
give delight. So we find it in the Alexandrian writings, 
especially the poets. So, too, it was under the Roman 
emperors in the latter days of Roman civilization. 
Artificiality, style — that was what the writers of the 
time were looking for, — no freedom of expression, 
but neatly turned phrases, alliteration, antithesis, 
chiasmus and a thousand other dainty tricks. In 
Roman schools of rhetoric, for example, on what ques- 
tions did the students sharpen their intellects. “Should 
Caesar cross the Rubicon?” Or a more delicate pro- 
blem: “Should a son who has fallen into the hands 
of pirates and whom the Captain’s daughter has 
rescued and run off with on the condition that he 
marry her fulfil his promise, if his father objects and 
threatens to disinherit him?” After such questions 
had been debated a few hundred times, the only thing 
to look for was a new mode of expression, twists and 
turns of the language. 



78 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



And so if we pass through other periods of decadence 
in the history of the world we find the same common 
features. They follow a period of creative activity. 
The minds of men seem to be exhausted. All effort 
is devoted either to criticism or commentaries on 
what the previous age has achieved, or to finding new 
forms for expression of the material furnished by that 
fruitful period. Or perhaps there is a tendency to 
throw overboard what has just been brought forward 
and to go on expeditions into the archaic. Whatever 
is done the result is the same, artificiality, emphasis 
on trivialities, emphasis on Form over Content. Note 
that the Silver Age makes no contribution at all to 
civilization. It constitutes a pause in the advance, 
a stopping, sometimes to chronicle and survey the 
results, sometimes to continue slowly and impercepti- 
bly in the onward march. But sometimes, too, they are 
a complete break in the forward movement. Yet 
they seem to be inevitable. And whether the fin-de- 
siècle is the result of material conditions or is itself 
an attitude which brings these about is an altogether 
new problem. 

However, I have far from explained my friend’s 
dream which set me wandering over this long path. 
Yet it should be apparent by now. We are bombarded 
with words, some so meaningless, so bombastic, so 
nonsensical to even the casual listener that we are 
led to think there is nothing original in our age, that 
old outworn doctrines are being hurled at us with a 
shower of ideas and standards that no clear-thinking 
individual could possibly accept. But despite all this, 
and the disgust we may at times feel with conditions 
as they are, we cannot venture to term the present 
a Silver Age. The most we can say is that it seems 
so to us. It may be that amid this turmoil, this confused 
mass there is something abiding, something that will 
delight posterity. Perhaps it was so in Babylon, in 
Athens, in Rome — in every great centre in any period 
of history. There is that difficulty with contem- 
porary criticism. We are ever inclined to locate the 
Golden Age in the past and condemn our own as 
mere Silver. It must be admitted that when we look 
about and behold the Form prevailing over the 
Content, after hearing something a thousand times, 
we search in vain for a new thought; when we see 
artificiality rampant, and freedom bound on every 
side by convention and ignorance, we are naturally 
inclined to be skeptical. If the age has produced any- 
thing of worth it will undoubtedly come from a chosen 
few. Perhaps it was always so. 



A Poem 

T AKE in your long arms 
The torso of a wave: 

Stroke its lithe loveliness, 

Let it tenderly lave 
Arms, breast and shoulders, 

Sinews and thighs 
From the yellow of love, 

Her immoderate eyes, 

The ache of her fingers, 

The whips of her hair, 

And the bruise where her mouth 
Moved here and there. 

— A. J. M. Smith 



A Child’s Garden of Verses 

Conformity 

M UCH madness is divinest sense 
To a discerning eye; 

Much sense the starkest madness. 
‘Tis the majority 
In this, as all, prevails. 

Assent, and you are sane; 

Demin', — you’re straightway dangerous. 
And handled with a chain. 

— Emily Dickinson 

The Witch 

T OIL and grow rich, 

What’s that but to lie 
With a foul witch 
And after, drained dry. 

To be brought 
To the chamber where 
Lies one long sought 
With despair. 

— W. B. Y tats 

Desire Gratified 

A bstinence sows sand aii over 
The ruddy limbs and flaming hair, 
But desire gratified 
Plants fruits of life and beauty there. 

— William Blakt 

Oh, That All The World Were Mad 

O H that all the world were mad I 

Then should we have fine dancing; 

Hobby horses would be had. 

And brave girls keep a-prancing; 

Beggars would on cock-horse ride. 

And boobies fall a-roaring; 

And cuckolds, though no horns be spied, 

Be one another goring. 

— William Rowley 



Reason Has Moons 

R EASON has moons, but moons not her* 

Lie mirrored on her sea. 

Confounding her astronomers, 

But oh, delighting me. 

— Ralph Hodson 

To The Oaks Of Glencree 

M Y arms are round you, and I lean 
Against you, while the lark 
Sings over us, and golden lights, and green 
Shadows are on your bark. 

There’ll come a season when you’ll stretch 
Black boards to cover me: 

Then in Mount Jerome I will lie, poor wretch, 

With worms eternally. 

— J. M. Synge 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



79 



Discussing Sport 

A. P. R. Coulborn 

“ 1 'HEU jugoces — ”, dear readers. The session is 
drawing to a close, and this is the last number 
of the first volume of the Fortnightly. The Daily 
too, will soon be ceasing effervescence. As a matter 
of fact the Daily must have forestalled me in bringing 
you these pieces of news. But I come to praise the 
Daily not to bury her. Her editorial Saturday March 6 
on “What Is Sport” was entirely in the right spirit. And 
though the excellent opinions expressed for the most 
part in the letters of correspondents on the Athletic 
Levy may not justly be accredited to the Daily herself, 
yet she may be congratulated upon affording the 
space for their publication. 

I cannot altogether, however, agree with the history 
of sport as seen through the spectacles of the Editor 
of the Daily, and would first give here my own view 
of that subject. On the whole I think the Editor is 
right in taking the history of sport under Greece and 
Rome as an unit, and that under Mediaeval and 
Modern Europe as another. Yet thefe can be small 
doubt that sport together with everything else became 
decadent in Greece in days after the Peloponnesian 
War, and the development from Greece to Rome 
was not rigidly continuous. The history of Rome is a 
remarkable phenomenon in that Rome really has two 
histories, the one up to the end of the Republic, which 
concerns only the growth of the city itself and of the 
mastery of Italy; and the other of the Empire which 
swept into its toils all the Mediterranean world, thus 
diverting the natural development of Italy and the 
city of Rome into new channels. 

No hard and fast line can of course be drawn between 
these two eras. The division is not even synonymous 
with Rome’s speedy conquests after the Punic wars, 
for the Mediterranean World, and Greece, its hitherto 
paramount influence, began to react upon Rome much 
earlier. 

The sport of Rome in its earlier days was crude and 
natural: it was of a lower order than that* of early 
Greece: yet it shewed all the vigorous healthiness, 
which the sports of all peoples have done, when the 
civilisations of those peoples have been ascendant. 
With the influence upon Rome of Greece came some- 
thing new. It is most remarkable in religion, but 
none the less in sport, which, by the way, was always 
closely related to religion in the classical world — “mens 
sana in corpore sano,” might almost equally well have 
been written “mens pia in corpore sano” — the influence 
of Greek sport was undoubtedly deleterious. It is 
true that in the Antonine age Rome shewed some of 
the benefits of Greek sport, but already the spiritual 
dislocation, caused by the overwhelming pressure of 
the superior culture upon the inferior, was apparent. 
The extreme specialisation of Greek sport had led the 
Romans in their effort to rival it, into setting sport 
upon an economic basis of professionalism, which 
indeed the Greeks had done themselves; and worse 
than that the crazy political structure of the city itself 
had long ago hit upon the idea of “sporting spectacles” 
for the debauchery of the mob. I agree entirely with 
the Editor of the Daily as to the progressive change 
of sport from the amusement of the participants to 
the amusement of the spectators. And I think the 
latter is invariably the sign of decadence. 



The Editor’s view of sport in the Middle Ages is 
not wholly correct in my opinion. He thinks there 
was very little sport at all beyond the “mock chivalric 
contests.” As a matter of fact the said contests, usually 
known as “jousts” (expressive word) were immensely 
popular and of continual occurrence. They had very 
rigid rules, particularly toward the end of the Middle 
Ages, and were watched by comparatively large num- 
bers of spectators. They may thus be said to be sport 
of a highly developed kind. Alongside them in the 
later Middle Ages were the embryonic shoots of our 
sports. University students often played “ball,” 
which was sternly repressed by the authorities. 

I have gone into this matter thus academically, in 
order that we may attempt to apply the evidence 
to modem conditions. The civilisation of the North 
American continent is a derivative of that of Europe. 
Such broad statements are hasardous, but I think it 
may be said that it is more closely related to European 
civilisation than was later Roman civilisation to Greek. 
Rome though influenced toward professionalism in 
sport by Greece, finally produced out of that profess- 
ionalism her own interpretation — the animal arena. 
North America plays games cognate with those of 
Europe and seems likely to do so. Her spirit is suf- 
ficiently near to that of Europe for there to be no need 
of changing entirely the medium of expression as did 
the Romans with Greek games. 

What then is the situation in North America at 
present? Sport has developed far along the path of 
professionalism. In many cases it does not make the 
slightest difference whether the players are paid cash 
or not. Both in professional games and amateur, which 
latter includes University sports, every phase and 
ramification is highly organised, and the whole con- 
certed to produce maximum efficiency in the actual 
combat. It may still be true that players derive some 
amusement from playing, but by far the greater part 
of their stimulus is, on the part of professionals their 
cash earnings, and on the part of amateurs the position 
of a petty popular hero. And behold the masses of 
spectators, too, the counterpart of the foul and vulgar 
mob of Rome, which delighted in the slaughter of 
the Christian martyrs by the lions. Would it not 
seem that here we are confronted with decadence? 

Such a conclusion appears irresistible. On the whole 
I am bound to incline to it myself. The solid facts are 
almost too strong to admit of any optimism. 

Are there, however, any straws of hope to which 
we may cling? In such broad matters as the lines of 
development of civilisation, we are largely in the realm 
of conjecture, and I would have it clearly understood 
that what I am about to say is said purely as such. 
There can be no doubt that the growth of civilisation 
from the extinction of the Roman Empire until to- 
day has been continuous; yet, while the general ten- 
dency has been always upward, the processus seems 
to be in a wave-like motion: the slope of the curve 
increases alternately fast and slowly: sometimes 
perhaps it is negative. To view the question a little 
differently — the “ingredients” of a civilisation seem 
to develop in harmony in one scheme of relation to 
each other for a period, then comes a shift of the kalei- 
doscope: the relation is rearranged: some of the ingred- 
ients slip out, perhaps: and others appear. Such shifts 
may be slight, or they may be wholesale. A wholesale 
shift took place at the end of the Middle Ages, and 



80 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



in the realm of sport, the “jousting” which we have 
noticed was eliminated. Yet a greater shift took place 
when Rome fell under the cultural domination or 
Greece 

Where I have used above the term “ingredients” 

I have meant fundamental elements, as for instance 
in the Middle Ages, Latin Christianity, or in Rome 
the crude but pure and beautiful rustic “pietas. 
And the apparent results of the “shifts” are seen not 
among the ingredients, which are as a rule sufficiently 
obscure to the contemporary eye, but in externals, 
of which the spirit of sport is a good example. It seems 
to me that in a few generations observers will be able 
to detect a “shift in the kaleidoscope” as a result of 
the late war. Further, the nature of our present 
“Western Civilisation” is a dualism, just as was that 
of Greece and Rome in their later days. On the one 
hand we have America, and on the other, Europe. 
Moreover, potentially if not actually, I feel that there 
is less cultural disparity between America and Europe, 
than between ancient Greece and Rome. And with 
two strong poles of emanation, each, as it were, both 
pushing and pulling at the other, it seems to me that 
“shifts in the kaleidoscope” may be more easy than 
in the case of a civilisation of one centre only. Perad- 
venture from some future revolutionary shift, or poss- 
ibly, even from out of the revolution in process to-day, 
may arise a new order of sport to supersede our pres- 
ent athletic system. But who knows? And in any 
case the new one would swell to the bursting like the 
old one. Pauvre humanité! 



rwi • • 

Trivia 



The Athletic Levy 

Y ES, we are in favour of the Athletic Levy,” 
Shout the Major and the Coach in a chorus, 
“If you say it is unjust, if you murmur it is 

[heavy, 

We reply, ‘Yes, for you — not for us.’ 

Professor Windbag 

Professor Windbag, Ph.D., 

Astounds his Freshman class 
With 1880 heresy 
That shocks each lad and lass 
Into a most profound respect 
For his courageous intellect. 

McGill Daily 

“Why is The McGill Daily ?” 

Asks the pessimist sourly. 

“Thank God,” says the optimist gaily, 
“That it isn’t hourly!” 

Epitaph 

Here lies the body 
Of Thomas Trimble: 

He thought the Scarlet Key 
Was a Phallic Symbol. 



7 wo Poems 

Below Decks 

T ALK to me, bones!” — The shifting candle-light 
A moment touched the speaker’s face with gold, — ■ 
Deep-creviced, as the lightning’s flash to sight 
Might bring some mountainside rain-worn and old, 
Showed the deep lines from lip to chin, the bold, 
Dark, deep-set eye, hooked nose, and streaked the 

[black 

And tumbled hair with yellow, then leapt back 

To catch and linger on the fluttering dice, 

The dull, piled silver and the greasy board. — 

“Little Joe dies!” — The trimmer saw the price 
Of many beers drawn in, counted his hoard 
And threw his last ten shillings to be scored 
Out with the rest. Long fingers, cold and grey 
Like wind-stirred paper, garnered Fortune’s pay. 

The watch was changed, and from the fire hole, 
Loud with the beat of steel, the growl of flame, 
Where for four hours they had shovelled coal 
Three blacks, still sweating, leaden-footed came, 

Lit cigarettes and sighed and joined the game 

In weary silence. — Overhead the deck 

Was washed with silver from the torn moon’s wreck: 

And still the sea in pleading monotone 
Cried to the stumbling ship; and still below, 

Where the bent candle’s flickering flame was blown 
Swiftly across dark faces, at each throw, — 

“Talk to me, bones!” or “Fade him, Little Joe!” — 
The gambler told his eager litany, 

Still hungry, still importunate as the sea. 



The Winter Road 

O NCE when the late trees wore a sombre gold 
And leaves already drifted hurrying by 
We walked this road together, watched the bold, 
Broad-colored waves of evening ebb and die; 

Lights bloom along the shore, then turned again 
Homeward beneath a drift of autumn rain: 

So when I walk the winter road alone 
With ghosts of glory glowing in the west, 

And stars awaking where the day has gone 
There comes a peace, and all the grey unrest 
Of longing merges: — you have gone this way 
As lately as the golden-skirted day. 

So lately that a clear effulgence clings 
About the brown-scrawled trees, and in the air 
The slow, sweet music of your passing rings 
Till, quieted, my thought becomes a prayer 
For your returning. — Silently night fills 
The sky, and breathes upon the folded hills. 



— Simeon Lamb 



— Goodridge Macdonald 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



81 



Downhill 

Thoughts on the Decline of Democracy 

“Vespasiano” 

(Concluded) 

III 

I N Czecho-Slovakia, and I believe in other countries 
too, voting is made compulsory. And those who omit 
to vote thereby commit a penal offense. This recalls 
the edict of Diocletian which compelled people in 
towns to accept municipal office. Although in the 
latter case the unwillingness was due to the fact that 
those in municipal authority were made personally 
responsible for the payment of the tax allotment in 
their locality, while in our present case, the unwilling- 
ness is due only to the irksomeness of going to the 
polling booth, the situations are essentially similar, 
for they both represent a system on the decline due 
to the refusal of the individual to comply with it. 

In days when the rapid changes of.the Industrial Rev- 
olution were causing dislocation and distress, which 
existing governments were unable to cope with, and 
at the same time the increase of material potentialities 
had brought about the enlightenment of the multitude 
in public affairs, that multitude came to the conclusion 
that itself alone could solve its troubles. It was natural 
that as a political parvenu the average man should 
feel he knew everything. It has been found, however, 
that the system which gives a deciding voice to the 
mob is no solution for difficulties, and naturally most 
ordinary persons have lost interest in it. At last the 
will of the majority is right — in abdicating its title to 
exist. 

IV 

T HIS is no new phenomenon in history. On a small 
scale it happened in the Greek city states, and 
the Mediaeval Italian city states. Something 
rather similar happened on the grand scale when the 
Caesars rose to govern Rome, and when the despotism 
of Napoleon succeeded the dallying Directory of 
France at the end of the French Revolution, is the 
most perfect parallel to what is occurring today. 
France, indeed, is even at this moment in that 
condition when a despot would be welcomed: it is only 
the man who is needed. The enthusiasm of the masses 
on the return of Caillaux was highly significant, but 
Caillaux was not the man. England has been for years 
ruled by its Cabinet — England has always loved 
oligarchies. Sometimes a dominating personality 
appears within the Cabinet, but there is no danger, 
even if there is no real leader. Our hoary “English 
Constitution” seems likely to weather the storm by 
its old expedient of casting a skin and appearing again 
as something new. 

Italy has Mussolini ,a crude military despot, and 
Spain has Rivera, a poor copy of Mussolini. Russia 
has stepped forward with something superficially new, 
but really very typically Russian, and no very wide 
departure from earlier Russian conditions, and provid- 
ing very easily for the selection of an oligarchy or a 
despot. Germany alone of the Powers seems dem- 
ocratic, but perhaps that is because she has had no 
true democracy before — let us hope she will not linger 
in long. 



V 

T HERE is one thing to notice about our new 
depositions and oligarchies — that they stand on 
their merits. I have said much of the inability of 
the masses to govern, or to influence policy closely, 
but ultimately they have a certain importance. They 
are the governed, and though they may not know how 
government should be done, they do know when they 
are being badly governed. If a government be only 
bad enough, sooner or later they will rise up and 
destroy it. This is as far as they may be allowed to go 
with safety, and it seems in future as if this is as far 
as they will go. The test of the value of the new cons- 
titutions which are entering politics is to be found in 
the quality of the methods they provide for the elec- 
tion of a new government when an old one has been 
destroyed. It would save much trouble and danger 
if instead of elections, referenda were held periodically 
as to whether the existing government should be 
allowed to continue. The votes for it need not be 
recorded, for in comfortable days men do not observe 
politics closely enough even to be aware of such a 
referendum. But if it were found that half or more 
of the registered electorate voted against, then a 
change might well be tried. This I suggest as a good 

method in the negative side of government making. 

• 

An equally important question is as to how to choose 
a new government. Here popular opinion is useless, 
for, having had no experience of the proposed new 
government in practice, it is quite incapable of judging 
it. It seems as if a permanent staff of learned practical 
thinkers — gentlemen of the type of Jeremy Bentham — 
should be employed for every sovran territory, to be 
ready with a new scheme, as each old one is declared 
to have failed. Two questions may justly be raised 
here: the first, why not let this staff decide when the 
old form is worn out; the second, why not let the staff 
govern themselves? 

To the first I would say this. A practical is inevita- 
bly more reliable than a theoretical test, and there- 
fore where it is possible to employ a practical test, it 
is only sensible to employ it. A referendum on the 
success of a government, by reason of eliciting the 
opinion of the governed, is obviously the most practical 
method possible. That the theoretical means of invent- 
ing a new government must be used, is only because 
in the nature of the case there is no practical means 
available. 

To the second question I would answer that the 
whole virtue of the staff of political thinkers is that 
it spends its time wholly in studying the question 
from the theoretical standpoint, and cannot possibly 
be expected to find time to undertake the practical 
side of governing too. Further, if the staff be themselves 
governors, they will obviously become hidebound 
and wedded to some particular scheme of government. 
Their raison d’être will be governing instead of cri- 
ticizing government. 

Doubtless this scheme has its faults. I do not hope 
and pray that some Ruritania will put it into practice. 
It is suggested merely in order to inject a little ration- 
ality in political discussion — a thing which seems 
much needed in days when all that aspiring young 
politicians can do is to beseech men to take an interest 
in elections — “for the good of their country!" 



82 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



A Note on Eugene O * Neill 

Leo Edel 

N EW Yorkis again discussing Mr. Eugene O’Neill an' 1 
his latest experiment The Great God Brown. While De- 
sire Under the Elms is facing the scorn of the censor 
in one or two of the states to the south of the Dominion 
and is completely banned in England, while The Foun- 
tain is still being dealt with by critics everywhere, the 
dramatist is pursuing his work and is steadily develop- 
ing his unusual dramas with their new distinctive 
ideas in the theatre of today. 

Desire Under the Elms has perhaps up to the present 
been Mr. O’Neill’s most discussed play, although 
The Great God Brown bids fair to rival it to a certain 
degree. Yet the latter, a great puzzle to many, indis- 
tinct because of the employment of the mask, is not as 
clearly-defined as the former, and so it is the play of 
Lust among the farm-folk, which yet holds out the 
greatest interest, particularly since the prohibitionists 
and investigators of “moral turpitude” have lately 
discovered that it is obscene and must be witheld 
from the easily-corrupted public. But by the time 
they reached this decision New York had already 
seen the play and placed its mark of approval upon 
it, while its latest appearance between the covers of 
a book brings it still more before the public eye. 

The play of course is merely one in a cycle, 
of works by Mr. O’Neill dealing not with the 
outward manifestations of life but rather with the 
forces which are to be found behind that life, dominat- 
ing and guiding it. This expressionistic tendency is 
to be noted in Europe too, particularly in the efforts 
of some of the younger German dramatists, among 
others those of Franz Werfel, whose Goal Song has 
recently been produced by the Theatre Guild. 

Eugene O’Neill’s dramas are not of the bookish type, 
conceived by the writer in the soft-cushioned comfort 
of his armchair. During the first twenty-four years 
of his life Mr. O’Neill had many adventures. He was 
a sailor on a tramp steamer, he starved in Buenos 
Ayres, he visited South Africa, he came to know the 
ship from the grimy soot of the stoke-hole to the semi- 
comfort of the captain’s cabin and he found himself 
in a sanitarium in 1914, five years after he had gone 
propecting for gold in the Spanish Honduras. Today, 
therefore, at the age of thirty-eight he can look back, 
draw on this wealth of experience, and with the the- 
atrical background of his childhood and youth — his 
father was James O’Neill, the actor — he is able to give 
us these dramas which are now practically the only 
American plays which are attracting attention in 
England and the Continent. 

Mr. O’Neill’s works deal with what has been termed 
the “behind life” elements. He would paint Fear — 
and so he creates The Emperor Jones and gives us 
a realistic picture of the torment and struggle of a 
negro in the murky blackness of a forest with the 
monotonous beating of tom-toms ever-swelling to 
prey upon his already jarred nerves so working him 
up to a horrible state of terror. He would give us a 
picture of Thirst and he places a middle-aged man, 
a negro sailor and a dancing girl on a drifting raft 
in the blazing heat of the tropics. Poverty he paints 
in several of his plays and he hates it and finds it 



to be the greatest of all of society’s crimes, even as 
does Mr. George Bernard Shaw. But O’Neill treats 
the theme differently. He goes behind and sees what 
impress poverty makes on the character and life of 
the people. Mr. Shaw, on the other hand, launches 
an attack upon the forças which produce the poverty. 
If Mr. Shaw’s method is clever and subtle, Mr. 
O’Neill’s is certainly more dramatic and effective. 
And if he wishes to give us a picture of Desire he takes 
us to the semi-primitive farm-folk, with their convent- 
ionalized minds and their sordid outlook on life, and 
so weaves a play which, far from being obscene, is 
a keen and critical analysis of this great and dominat- 
ing force. 

Mr. O’Neill’s plays of the sea, particularly the one- 
act plays found in the volume entitled The Moon of 
the Caribbees, are delightfully-planned glimpses into 
the life of the sailor and the conflicting emotions 
he must experience during the course of his strained 
existence. 

His recent works have all created much controversy. 
Mr. O’Neill has dabbled in the problem of intermarr- 
iage between whites and blacks in All God's Chillun 
Got Wings, he has tried romance in The Fountain 
and in his latest play he has employed the mask and 
has produced a drama which strikes still a newer 
note in his series of efforts which are justly creating 
so much interest in the theatrical world. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY 
PLAYERS’ CLUB 

Presents Pinero’s 



“Sweet Lavender” 



Thursday, Friday and Saturday 

MARCH 25th, 26th, and 27th, 
at 8.30 p.m. 



“LITTLE THEATRE” 

of the 

BIOLOGICAL BUILDING 



TICKETS 85 cents 



V 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



83 



> 

I 

j 

I 



I 




The Red and White Revue 

His Majesty’s Theatre 

March 2nd, 3rd, 4th, and 6th. 

N OW that the paint has been washed off and the 
profits raked in, it is a convenient time to sit 
back and survey calmly the whole question of 
the Red and White Revue. There is no other single 
performance during the academic year whose prepara- 
tion occupies so many undergraduates for so much 
of their time; there is no other occasion which gives 
the public such an opportunity of viewing what they 
believe to be the true spirit of the undergraduate body. 
The event is from every point of view important 
enough to warrant the most careful consideration, 
and it must be judged, not only as a sample of student 
creative ability, but also as a mirror held up to the 
life of the University. 

There is undoubtedly much to be said for the Revue 
as a proof that a great deal of exuberant imagination 
and genuine productive ability exists in the student 
body. It is no small achievement to have taken the 
best theatre in town and to have staged in it a perform- 
ance entirely planned, written and set to music by 
undergraduates. That gives evidence of a very laud- 
able ambition and daring, and no criticism is a fair 
one which does not give to the producers all credit 
for the fact. 

Without going to the obviously extreme lengths 
to which S.M.P. and his ilk felt it incumbent upon 
themselves to stretch their imagination, there were 
also certain things in the Revue which deserve part- 
icular commendation. The scenery and staging were 
tastefully done, especially excellent being the setting 
of the closing number, while many of the simpler scenes 
showed that the producers had mastered the lively 
art of getting much out of little. The work of the 
chorus, most noticeably in the Charleston number, 
and the arrangement of the dances were also 
praiseworthy. Miss Dunton, who was responsible 
for the costuming, performed a difficult task with 
conspicuous success. Much of the colour that was 
one of the most attractive features of the Revue was 
due to her very good work, which was seen at its best 
in the costuming of the Russian skit, the Penguins 
and the various choruses. Of the acting, the finest 
performance was that of Bobby Bell. His utterly 
absurd fooling in the rôle of a small and unusually 
idiotic boy was the bright spot of the evening, while 
his song and patter, with Herb Murphy aiding and 
abetting him as “Poppa”, provided in fact the only 
legitimate laugh in the show. The fact that he was 
(quite irrelevantly) allowed to wander on the stage 
to be near his Poppa, who had been impannelled with 
the jury in the trial scene, was the saving grace of a 
playlet of peculiar fatuity. 

The following actors and actresses also deserve 
honorable mention: Miss Monica Wright, for her 
dancing and singing, and the possession of that 
indefinable something, so beloved of Mr. J. M. 
Barrie, called “charm”; Miss Cameron and Mr. 
Wright, for their mastery of the Charleston; Miss 
James of the Conservatorium of Music, and the lady 
who so gallantly and ably took her place on the open- 
ing nights; lastly, and by no means least, Mr. “Rusty” 
Davis, who composed the music and conducted the 
orchestra. If the various authors had done as well by 
the company in their skits as Mr. Davis did in his 
music, the captious critic would be hard pressed for 
grounds of condemnation. 



But having said all this, it is casting no personal 
reflections to ask the all-important question: Is the 
Red and White Revue, as produced for the last two 
years, the type of performance which a University 
should make great efforts annually to put before the 
public? It is difficult to see how the answer can be 
given in the affirmative. For in spite of an unques- 
tioned ability in the actors, producers and musicians, 
it cannot be denied that the general tone of the Revue, 
with but slight exception, was not such as could 
possibly bring credit to McGill. It was a true copy 
of “College Humour”. For those who read that 
“collegiate” magazine, explanation is superfluous; 
for those who do not, let it be said that it has no sen- 
timent, but only sentimentality, no wit, but only 
burlesque and broad humour, and then generally 
of a vulgar nature, and no other way of laughing at 
students save in so far as they indulge in excessive 
sport, drink, “necking parties” and cramming for ex- 
aminations. “College Humour” is the strongest in- 
dictment of the American College that can be found 
in print. To see its attitude of mind reproduced by 
McGill students on a Montreal stage, as it undoubt- 
edly was in “The Open Date” and “Dear Father”, 
and in the "boy-and-girl stuff” generally, is not only 
not amusing, but also unfair to McGill, of whose life 
it is a low caricature. Indeed, the Fortnightly, which 
has been accused of an affected superiority, has never 
for a moment looked at the undergraduate and under- 
graduette through such cynical and degrading spec- 
tacles as have some of the authors of the Revue, who 
yet retain the plaudits of the crowd. If the performance 
were what it was several years ago, the spontaneous 
burlesque staged without much publicity by com- 
peting faculties, such things might be pardoned and 
even enjoyed. But they should not be acted in cold 
blood after months of strenuous work and before the 
general public. The game is not worth the candle. 

The question is at once asked, What do you suggest? 
Simply this: if the producers of the Revue have no 
better type of material offered to them, no opportunity 
of displaying to the public of Montreal something 
which is a truer reflection of this University’s life, 
then it were better to scrap the Revue altogether, and 
let the Students’ Society forego the profits. The under- 
graduates with dramatic talent might then concentrate 
upon the Players’ Club, (which, without any noise 
or fuss, and against no little apathy, is keeping alive 
at McGill an interest in true drama) and those who 
wish to dance the latest jazz step or sing in a chorus 
might stage a one-night affair in some out-the-way 
theatre such as the St. Denis — or, better still, 
within the University itself. F.R.S. 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 

Editorial Board: A.P.R. Coulbom, A.B. Latham, 
F.R. Scott, A.J.M. Smith. Managing Editor : L. Edel. 

The Editorial Board is responsible only for 
opinions expressed in the editorial columns, and 
hopes to publish articles on controversial questions 
by contributors of widely divergent views. 

MSS. may be submitted personally to any one 
of the editors, or mailed to The McGill Fortnightly 
Review, Apt. 16, 989 Atwater Ave., Montreal. 
Unsuitable contributions will be returned. 

Subscription rates are one dollar for this year’s 
complete issue. Cheques should be made payable 
to the McGill Fortnightly Review and sent to the 
Managing Editor at the above address. 




84 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



Correspondence 

The McGill Fortnightly Review, 

Dear Sirs, 

Although it may be thought that I shew one of the 
best known symptoms of incipient lunacy, I address 
this letter to you, one of whom is myself: and this I 
do that I may meet Mr. Lewis Thomas on equal 
terms. » 

It almost seems howeyer, that Mr. Lewis Thomas 
has not altogether understood my first article on 
“Universities,” as appears when he asks whether my 
conception of an University is an “exclusive institu- 
tion, where a body of persons devote a portion or all 
of their lives entirely to the cultivation of the mind — 
to thinking — with no other objective than self-satis- 
faction.” I would refer him to the fourth paragraph 
of “Universities” on this point. I distinctly say there 
that I would not have an University a “close corpora- 
tion,” which seems to be much the same as Mr. Lewis 
Thomas’ “exclusive institution.” 

The centre of my idea of an University is however 
very definitely a body of persons devoting themselves 
to learning. Education may quite possibly be a “train- 
ing for life,” as Mr. Lewis Thomas remarks, but where 
did I say anything about education in connection 
with an University? An University is emphatically 
not an educational institution in itself: its connection 
with education is secondary. This is the very core of 
the question. I laboured in “Universities” my view 
that an University does most emphatically not equip a 
man for a trade or profession, which is sturdy the same 
as a ‘training for life,’ only a little narrower and more 
specific. The truth is, Mr. Lewis Thomas and I are 
at cross-purposes. The kind of institution he pictures 
is perfectly admirable, and I do not doubt, though I 
do not pretend to know much about such matters, 
thoroughly necessary. Only, do not let such establish- 
ments usurp the name of University. It is infinitely 
worse when they begin to crowd the true university 
out of existence, as they are only too plainly doing 
to-day. 

Mr. Lewis Thomas would like to know how I dare 
make the statement that Medicine, Law, Applied 
Science are not university subjects. Well, I dare do a 
good deal worse than that, when I am in the mood, 
and shall if I am goaded to it. This, he takes as equiv- 
alent to my saying that doctors of medicine, engineers 
and so on are not thinkers, by which he does not mean 

“pure thinkers” those selfish fellows — again he 

will observe by re-reading my article that I said nothing 
whatever about their not being thinkers; I only 
excluded them from the scorned class of “pure think- 
ers,” where, if they agree with Mr. Lewis Thomas, 
they do not wish to be in any case. 

There is undoubtedly much truth in what Mr. Lewis 
Thomas says about the materialism of many students. 
I dare say in institutions such as those he is speaking 
of his arguments are entirely applicable. In Universi- 
ties, however, of the true kind, such measures as he 
advocates would not be necessary since the evils of 
which he speaks would not arise. They have only 
arisen in our modem Universities, because, as I have 
pointed out, they are trying to be two things at once. 

It is indeed a deep sorrow to me to find that one 
such as Mr. Lewis Thomas has so completely failed 
to understand me. It is a dreadful sign of the times. 
It is against this very utilitarian attitude that I am 
crying out, and of course Mr. Lewis Thomas is nothing 



but a pure utilitarian. He wishes everything — even 
Universities — to be set directly to the task of im- 
proving society. This terribly narrow little spirit is 
one of our worst heritages from the Nineteenth 
Century, and it is high time that it was scotched. How 
many times must I say that the be-all and end-all 
of our existence is not — oh so very much not — social uplift. 
All this progress, this pep, this go-ahead, tub-thumping 
evangelising stuff is not the sole purpose of life. 
There do exist: there always have existed: and there 
always will exist other things in life besides these. This 
terrible age seems to have almost lost sight of them 
altogether, and the awful result is that men, whom 
one must distinctively respect, are quite unable to 
appreciate the feelings of those whose aspirations are 
not theirs. Mr. Lewis Thomas thinks I was temporarily 
off my mental balance in my effort to preserve that 
which I love, but I do not imagine that I was or am 
any more in that condition than anyone else trying 
to do the same thing. Indeed it seems a most rational 
procedure to me. I do not reply that Mr. Lewis 
Thomas has lost his mental balance, I merely point 
to what I have said above and say further that he has 
the idée fixe of the utilitarian. I crave one thing only 
in this matter, that we may just possibly and by some 
curious mischance, be not altogether and absolutely 
right, that there may perhaps be the least grain of 
sense in other people’s point of view, and let them leave 
my little section of the heretics alone and give us our 
one little comer — our Universities. 

I am, 

Yours as ever, 

A. P. R. Coulbourn 



Tel. Uptown 6834 



Burton’s Limited 

Booksellers & Stationers 

597 St. Catherine St. West 
Montreal, P. Q. 

Between Drummond and Mountain Sts. 



