



TERMS : $1.00 Per Annum, in Advance. 



VOL. VI. No. 7. 



MeGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, MAY 1st, 1883. 




EDITORIAL COMMITTEE. 



Prof. Chas. E. Moyse, B.A., Consulting Editor. 



J. R. Murray, ’83, Arts. 

J. E. Martin, ’83, Law. 

W. H. Turner, ’84, Arts. 

C. A. Duclos, B.A., ’84, Law. 



R. F. Ruttan, B.A., ’84, Med. 
R. F. Smith, ’83, Ap. Sc. 

A. R. Davis, ’84, Ap. Sc. 

H. J. Harrisson, ’83, Med. 



> 



The University Gazette is published on the first of every month during 
the College Session. 

Rejected Communications will not be returned, to which rule no exception 
can be made. The name of the writer must always accompany a communication. 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE. 



Editorials 1-3 

Contributions 3-4 

College World 4-7 

Between the Lectures 7-8 

Personals S 

Correspondence 8 

Poetry 8-9 



New Books Received by Librarian 



Editorials. 

The Session just concluded has been more than usually eventful. We 
are not thinking of the re-appearance of the McGill University Gazette as 
something remarkable and worthy of being chronicled — not but that the 
Gazette claims to be an item of importance to all connected with the College, 
flattering itself that it is historic in its little mode and justly entitled to the 
notice of the future annalist. But we are referring to important changes in 
the organization of our University, some already completed, others in pro- 
cess of development. The first of these is the alteration of the curriculum 
in Arts, of which this year’s Graduating class is the first fruits. We believe 
that the best educational tendency of the present day is, in its broader 
aspects, sound and invigorating. The peculiarities ot different minds, 
whether due to earliest instruction or existing prior to it, deserve recogni- 
tion and sympathy from those who teach. Up to a certain point the same 
training may be advantageous for all alike, but, after the general principles 
of various branches of knowledge have been clearly apprehended by the 
the mass of students, differentiation is not only salutary, but even neces- 
sary in order to display in their full strength those mental peculiarities which 
are strictly individual and which are in varying measure different in all men.* 



The task of educating may seem to be rendered easier by acknowledging 
these peculiarities and by giving them scope for exercise, but our eyes 
should not thereby be blind to the importance of general instruction. Uni- 
versities in Canada do in sober fact take up the work of the more 
advanced schools. They must take it up, and continue so to do, until 
the teaching in those schools has reached a far higher level than it has 
yet attained : for the accuracy and thoroughness of educational beginnings 
are well-nigh destroyed by an insatiate desire to impart a little of everything 
in a hasty and an imperfect way. We are not finding fault with the teachers, 
but condemning the idea which they do their best to carry into act. Scraps 
of classical knowledge, of modern literature, of history, of political economy, 
of philosophy, of mathematics in all its primary branches, of science, or 
rather of half a dozen sciences, are imposing only in sound but not in sub- 
stance. We could wish that the range of studies were more limited and 
framed with a view of bringing forth the best and strongest results from 
minds thal are in their very nature tender and highly plastic ; minds often 
definitely and lastingly moulded by their first contact with knowledge. We 
could wish also that the examinational spirit to which such instruction 
panders could be kept in its due and legitimate place and could be regarded 
simply as a means and not as an end. But narrow school-teaching as we 
may, it must in contradistinction to the higher parts of University training 
be general, and advanced University training should be attempted only 
when some degree of thoroughness in the elements of a liberal education 
have been ensured ; accordingly the work of the first two years in McGill 
compels the student to devote his energies to acquiring a substratum of 
general fact. What departments of special study will be most attractive to 
the larger body of Undergraduates it would be as yet premature to augur ; 
but the principle lately adopted and now in active working is at one with 
the views of those best qualified to divine the true method of University 
education, as related to the rapid advance of discovery in almost every 
branch of knowledge. 

We observe, also, that new regulations for the higher degrees in Arts are 
under consideration. This is as timely as it is wise. Many graduates who 
own a B.A. degree are loath to proceed further in their course because they 
feel that the M.A. means little or nothing. This is due to the various 
methods in which such degree can be obtained. In some Universities, the 
Scotch for instance, the course in Arts leads to the Master’s degree and to 
nothing else. In the older Universities of England the M A. is obtained, 
after an appointed interval, simply by the payment of a fee. In the Uni- 
versity of London, specialization of work is the basis on which the Bachelor 
of Arts attains to higher University distinction, and searching examination is 
a necessity. But to require a Thesis, and that only, is little better than to 
confer the degree on the ground of seniority, unless regulations demanding 
research and elegance of composition are strictly enforced. What shape 
the deliberations of the Faculty will finally take we do not know, but they 



i 





2 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[May ist, 



can scarcely fail to better circumstances that are acknowledged to be 
unsatisfactory. 

We have been accused — and the accusation is pleasant — of leading a 
“ crusade ” in favour of the admission of women to the educational advan- 
tages of the University. But “ crusade ” is a strong term, for the centres of 
higher instruction are not now held by intellectual Turks. Those in whose 
power the future prophecy of the University rests, own that in theory a 
University is an institution of which all may reap the benefits it alone can 
bring. They are devising how our limited resources may be made to meet 
all requirements, and we hope the day is not far distant when the Principal 
shall have the pleasure of capping that “ first lady Graduate ” to whom he 
gracefully alluded at the Graduates’ dinner. But since we are speaking of 
the future there is one matter that will assert itself. McGill has won wide 
and lasting fame in the department of Natural Science. Dr. Dawson is one 
of the most distinguished of scientists ; our Redpath Museum has no equal 
in the Dominion, but we are as yet without a Faculty of Science. If our 
present limited powers forbid us to entertain the idea of establishing a 
Faculty of Science, we hope that the need and the wisdom of taking some 
steps towards this end will be awakened. It is better, we grant, to have 
no such Faculty than to create one insufficient for thoroughly doing the 
work it may profess ; but strenuous external and internal effort ought to 
bring about a consummation existing justifiably — and unjustifiably — in 
almost all Universities which show signs of vitality and ready adaptibility 
to the wants of the age. Our Faculty of Applied Science — the name sounds 
odd ; it is certainly very rare and for aught we know, unique — is in a highly 
flourishing condition, but we should like to see it and other departments 
raised to greater dignity and to their true worth, either by the amalgamation 
of existing interests or by the introduction of elements which shall conduce 
to completeness and marked success. 

An epitome of the changes which have lately been made in the Faculty 
of Medicine will be found elsewhere in this issue. The Medical Faculty is 
one of which McGill has always been deservedly proud. Its Professors have 
'from the first been men of energy and great ability, and inlnany instances 
have shown that disinterestedness and self-devotion which is happily not 
rare among those who practise the most humane of all Sciences. The 
works of those who founded the School do follow them, and worthy suc- 
cessors as well. These are alive to the rapid increase of theoretical and 
practical knowledge, and conscious that a University must be ready to dis- 
cern new claims and to meet them in the best possible way, have strength- 
ened an already strong position by the measures they have adopted. 

We cannot close these remarks without a reference to the contemplated 
absence of our Principal. If any man deserves rest from unselfish and 
incessant labour, he deserves it. We hope that his journeyings will bring 
him much pleasure and refresh energies that refuse to show signs of flagging 
while he remains with us. Those to whom his work in the University is to 
be entrusted during his absence will, we are assured, prove themselves both 
capable and zealous. We very much regret that a short paragraph regard- 
ing his Ioann tenentes , which appeared in our last issue, was entirely without 
foundation. It crept into our pages as rumours will. 



This issue completes the sixth volume of the University Gazette. 

Amid many good wishes and not a few prophecies of failure, we last 
October launched our frail bark on the troubled sea of college journalism. 
Though the hands that held the tiller were weak and inexperienced they were 
strengthened, we trust, by love for McGill, and animated by a desire to make 
the journal worthy of the college of whose views it was the authorized 
exponent. 

To those who have aided us in reviving the Gazette and with it, we hope, 
a taste for journalism among the students, we give our thanks and ask for a 
continuance of their support, conscious that we have not intentionally done 
anything to render us unworthy their further confidence. 

A college paper affords a means by which the mind may be expanded as 
nothing else does ; and, instead of burying itself in dry-as-dust learning, 
can have the cheertul satisfaction of communicating its poetic fancies, 
romantic visions or knowledge to others, and while doing so it improves 
itself. 

We commend these thoughts to our own men, and if it did not seem like 
an appeal to act on unworthy motives, we might remind them that the facility 



in writing acquired by college journalism is the best possible training for the 
modern system of written examinations. 

That McGill does not issue a live, sparkling and clever weekly is her own 
fault. Many of those to whom we have a right to look for encouragement 
and support have given but little, forgetting that the passive tolerance of a 
college journal is worse than a spirited opposition. Let us remind those that 
an academic journal is, whether justly or not, regarded by many as an index 
of the intellectual calibre of the college it represents. Therefore, we claim 
it as the bounden duty of those who will be in the van of Undergraduate 
thought and influence next session, as well as the college authorities, to give 
their active co-operation in sustaining and perfecting our college paper. 

That our Graduates should aid and encourage us is an essential factor to 
complete our success ; that they have not done so this session is as lamenta- 
ble as it is true. A lack of interest in the events transpiring every month in 
and about the college Halls, each should hold so dear, shews a sad want of 
that true University esprit de corps without which a degree only shews that 
its possessor was incapable of grasping what is meant by a University 
Education. 

For the conduct of the Gazette we have not the vanity to claim perfec. 
tion, but we do claim that while our columns have ever been open as a me- 
dium for bringing forward just and reasonable grievances, we have studiously 
avoided uttering querulous complaints against constituted authority. On 
our own work, however, let us make no eulogy, but if it has awakened among 
the men of this University a determination to aid us in the future more than 
in the past we are content. 

We have recently received a copy of the Constitution and By-laws of the 
Canadian Students’ Club of Edinburgh, which was organized in that city 
about a year ago. The object of the society is to gather together in a social 
manner the Canadian students in Edinburgh, and to cultivate a feeling of 
friendship among them. The advantages of a club like this, especially to 
Canadians visiting the old country for the first time, cannot be overestimated, 
and we hope that any of our graduates who may have the good fortune to 
visit the Scotch capital, will at once enrol themselves as members of the 
Society. Those wishing for information may address the Hon. Secretary, 
Mr. A. E. Thomson, B.A., Literary Institute, South Clark Street, Edinburgh. 

We have on more than one occasion drawn the attention of Undergraduates 
to the necessity of forming some kind of Athletical Association in the 
University, and at one time during the session we hoped to be successful in 
inaugurating a movement to establish an organization of the kind. Our 
efforts, however, were unsuccessful and the project was abandoned until 
some future time. We are now glad to note that at a general meeting of 
students, held on the 28th of last month, a committee was appointed to have 
a track laid down round the foot-ball ground. This action was taken in 
consequence of a proposal by Professor McLeod to superintend the work, 
and to aid the committee in raising the necessary funds for its completion. 
The amount which will be required is a mere bagatelle when we consider the 
great benefit that will accrue from the improvement. We hope that the 
friends of the University and the friends of manly out-door exercise will 
liberally help Prof. McLeod and the committee in their efforts to increase the 
attractions of McGill. We also hope that this may only be the beginning of 
a series of improvements, which are badly needed, and that the appointment 
of the present committee will result in the organization of a permanent 
association such as we have before referred to. The lawn tennis club, too, 
are working hard to arrange a suitable piece of ground on which they can 
play in the autumn as well as during the summer. If these two objects are 
accomplished we shall have made much progress in the matter of our sports. 

Of the circumstances which have led to the resignation of Dr. Wright we 
do not care to speak. That it was inevitable every one felt, that it is sad no 
one can deny, that it will be beneficial all agree. For the good work which 
he has done in the college during three and thirty years let us be grateful. 
After a brilliant college career and a subsequent visit to Europe, he was 
appointed Demonstrator of Anatomy, and Curator of the Museum in 
1850. In ’52 he was elevated to the chair of Medical Jurispru- 
dence, and in ’54 to that of Materia Medica. Painstaking as a 
teacher, impressive as a lecturer, dignified and high principled as a 
man, he is affectionately remembered by many a McGill man of those 
days. We call to mind a conversation last summer with a graduate of ’57, 



1883] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



3 



who had entered at a time when Profs. Wright and Howard began their 
work. Their zeal, energy and influence, he said, still stimulated him, and he 
would ever be grateful for having been brought in contact with them. There 
are many such. From 1853 to 1859 Dr. Wright edited with Dr. McCallum 
the Medical Chronicle , in which appear many valuable communications from 
his pen, as well as able editorials. In the Hospital he was a good clinical 
Instructor, and an able and dextrous operator. 



Since 1875, date of Dr. Gardner’s appointment, no special changes have 
taken place in the teaching staff of the Medical Department. The resignation 
of Dr. Craik was followed by the appointment of the Professor of Practical 
Chemistry. For the vacancies left by the resignation of Drs. Wright and 
McCallum, the Faculty have, we hear, made the following recommendations : 
For Materia Medica and Therapeutics, Dr. James Stewart, of Brucefield, 
Ont. The chair of Midwifery and Diseases of Children, will be divided into 
one of Midwifery and Diseases of Infants, and one of Gynaecology. For 
the former Dr. A. A. Browne has been chosen, for the latter Dr. Gardner. 
Dr. Wilkins, of Bishop’s College, has been asked to take Medical Juris- 
prudence, vacated by Dr. Gardner, and Dr. R. L. MacDonnell will take 
Hygiene. 

In the recommendation of Dr. Stewart, the Faculty have taken a step which 
augurs well for the future. They have gone outside the city and the 
Province and have chosen the best man obtainable under the circumstances. 
Dr. Stewart is an alumnus of McGill (’76), and, though he practises in a 
small town in Ontario, has the reputation of being one of the best trained 
physicians in the Dominion. He has spent long periods abroad on three 
separate occasions, and has been in Vienna for the past seven months. His 
work and tendencies have been strongly therapeutical, and he has studied 
in the laboratories of some of the great experimental teachers of this subject. 
He will be an acquisition to the Profession of the city, and we predict for 
him a brilliant career in the University. 

The establishment of separate chair of Gynaecology will be greeted with 
satisfaction by all students. 

Dr. Gardner has given up general practice, and will be able to devote a 
large part of his time to the practical teaching of this subject. 

Dr. A. A. Browne graduated in Arts in 1866 (Medallist in Literature) and 
in Medicine in ’72. For four years he has been assistant to the Professor of 
Midwifery, and has taught clinical obstetrics at the Lying-in-Hospital. We 
believe he has one of the largest practices in the city in his special depart- 
ment. His introduction this summer session of the practical course on 
Obstetric Operations, has given general satisfaction. 

Dr. Wilkins is a graduate of Toronto (M B. 1866), and has been Profes- 
sor of Pathology and Physiology in Bishop's College. He has the reputa- 
tion of being an enthusiastic and able worker, and is one of the ablest 
microscopists in the country. 



(Co ntn tuitions. 

(We are not responsible for any opinions expressed in this column . — Eds.,) 
A Few Words on Originality. 

Originality is put prominently forward as the greatest merit in writings of 
every kind. This is, of course, correct to a certain extent ; but, when we 
come to examine the question closely, it will perhaps appear that authors 
have at least as frequently erred while engaged in the pursuit of this greatest 
merit, as when following in the beaten track of thought and discovery. 

In the world of science how many a blunder can we trace to this source : 
how many a vain hypothesis, how many an ill-digested theory : We would 

assuredly not have people too subservient to opinion, too fond of the wisdom 
of the ancients, especially when these are possibly opposed to truth. For, 
thus the world would have lost a I*uther, a Galileo, a Bacon, a Kepler, a 
Newton ; superstition and conventionality would still be sitting on their 
cloudy throne ; astronomy and chemistry would be scarcely yet dawning 
on the distant horizon of knowledge. But the lot of making great dis- 
coveries does not fall to everyone, and there can be no greater mistake than 
to suppose truth can be attained only by perpetually overturning present 
opinions. 

The undue pursuit of originality in literary compositions is apparently 
less dangerous, but not really so. The blame of many a mistake on this 
score seems to lie at the door of a certain class of critics. The world begins 
to tire of reading the oft-repeated complaints made by some on the subject 



of plagiarism. It would seem as if they wished to establish a monopoly of 
ideas and thoughts. The fortunate author who has hit upon one path is to 
claim it as his own property — to prohibit all others from using it. W e need 
not insist on the ultimate consequences of such a proceeding. W hat would 
become of modern poetry if Homer had thus taken out a patent for every 
simile, and registered every metaphor ? The greatest and best of writers 
would have had no choice but to throw down their pens, and abandon 
authorship in despair. 

Consider the matter as a question of right. Is it not possible that the 
minds of two people may be similarly constituted and fashioned, at least in 
many particulars? Are we all to be regarded as so many Chubb’s locks, 
each with his own particnlar impress, partaking in no respect of the qualities 
of another ? Does each stream flow along always in its separate channel ? 
Is each man surrounded as with a fence of his own peculiarity, caring not 
for other men, and thinking not with other men ? Undoubtedly not. Then, 
why should we not, in the circle of thought, arrive oftentimes at the same 
point where others have been before us? The experience of everyone 
shows that we do. It may be that the process has been the same — or the 
paths may have been different — as two travellers may arrive at the Indies, 
though one has pursued his voyage on the pathless ocean ; and the other 
followed the track of the dromedary across the sandy desert. In this case, 
the innocent and unconscious author is suddenly accused of having pilfered 
his ideas from an author whom he has never read. If he tries another road 
to avoid suspicion of the most distant imitation, his studied pursuit of origin- 
ality may lead him into culpable or absurd eccentricities. 

Again, suppose that an author does think fit to avail himself of that which 
has been suggested by another ; may it not rightly belong to the subject of 
which he is treating, and fitly amalgamate with his own ideas ? Or, may he 
not put the matter in a new light, and bring it out with additional advantage 
for the use and benefit of mankind ? If some such license were not granted, 
then the works of great authors would in few cases outlive their own era — 
their expressions would become obsolete — and they would be lost to the 
world. 

It must not be supposed by anyone that we are attempting to apologise 
in the slightest degree for those literary jackals, every one of whose ideas 
and sentences is pirated from the brains of others. Such men do not know 
how to apply, or to improve. If they alter at all, they do but soil that 
which they touch. But there are others who lay not up their talent in a 
napkin, but employ it to advantage ; and, for the sake of such, for the sake 
of mankind in general, we would like to see established a republic of ideas — 
a commonwealth of thought. We would have every author regard his works 
as a drop in the universal ocean of knowledge — as a mite contributed to 
that treasury from which every man may borrow, who knows how to use his 
loan well. 

As the subject of originality and the allied topic of borrowing have been 
frequently discussed by the greatest writers, we may be allowed to quote a 
few of their opinions. From a host of passages that occur to us, we will 
cite the words of an American Philosopher — of a German Poet — and of an 
English Archbishop. 

Emerson is, we think, far too outspoken on the subject. Writing of 
Chaucer, he says : “ He steals by this apology — that what he takes has no 
worth where he finds it, and the greatest where he leaves it. It has come 
to be practically a rule in literature , that a man, having once shewn himself 
capable of origbial writing , is entitled thenceforth to steal from the writings 
of others at discretion. Thought is the property of him who can entertain 
it, and of him who can adequately place it. A certain awkwardness marks 
the use of borrowed thoughts : but, as soon as we have learned what to do 
with them, they become our own.” 

Farther on in the same essay, Emerson continues : “ It is easy to see 
that what is best written or done by genius was no one man’s work. Our 
English Bible is a wonderful specimen of the strength and music of the 
English Language. But it was not made by one man, or at one time ; 
centuries and churches brought it to perfection. There never was a time 
when there was not some translation existing. The Liturgy, admired for 
its energy and pathos, is an anthology of the piety of ages and nations, a 
translation of the prayers and forms of the Catholic Church — these, too 
collected in long periods, from the prayers and meditations of every saint 
all over the world. Grotius makes the like remark in regard to the Lord’s 
Prayer, that the single clauses of which it is composed were already in use 
in the time of Christ, in the rabbinical forms. He picked out the grains of 
gold.” Witn much more to the same purport, which is well worth reading 

Let us now turn to the witty and satirical Heine. “ Nothing,” says he, 
in his Letters on the French Stage, “ nothing is more foolish than the reproach 
of plagiarism. There is no sixth commandment in art. The poet is entitled 
to lay his hands upon whatever material he finds necessary for his work : 
he may even appropriate whole pillars with their sculptured capitals, if only 
the temple is magnificent for which he employs them as supports. Goethe 
well knew this : aye, and Shakespeare himself before him. Nothing can be 
more absurd than to insist that a poet must find all his materials within 
himself, and that this only is originality. I am reminded of a fable in which 
the spider conversing with the bee, makes it a reproach against the latter 
that she collects materials from a thousand flowers for the construction of 
her honeycomb, and the preparation of her honey. “ Whereas I,” savs the 



1 



4 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[May ist. 



spider triumphantly, “ draw the original threads of my whole web out of my 
own body.” 

Lastly, we will give one or two short quotations from Archbishop Trench’s 
Led tires on Plutarch : 

^ riting of Shakespeare's deep indebtedness to the ancient biographer, he 
says : ‘‘ I do not think it too much to affirm that Shakespeare’s three great 
Roman plays, reproducing the ancient Roman world as no other modern 
poetry has ever done — I refer to Coriolanus, Julius Cccsar , and Antony and 
Cleopatra would never have existed, or, had Shakespeare lighted by 
chance on these arguments, would have existed in forms altogether different 
from those in which they now appear, if Plutarch had not written, and Sir 
Thomas North, or some other in his place, had not translated. We have 
in Plutarch not the skeleton or framework of the story, no, nor yet merely 
the ligaments and the sinews, but very much also of the flesh and blood 
wherewith these are covered and clothed.” 

Again: ‘ It is scarcely an exaggeration to say that the whole play of 
Julius Ctesar , — and the same holds good of Coriolanus no less — is to be 
found in Plutarch. Shakespeare has indeed thrown a rich mantle over all, 
which is often wholly his own ; but, of the incident there is almost nothing 
which he does not owe to Plutarch, even as continually he owes the very 
wording to Sir Thomas North.” 

In the last passage that we shall quote, the Archbishop gives us his views 
on originality, which are almost identical with those of Emerson and Heine. 
“ Nowhere,” he writes, “ does our English poet make any pretence of con- 
cealing his obligations to Plutarch : but adopts all, even to the very words 
of Sir Thomas North, with only such transposition, and alteration as may 
be necessary to give to them a rhythmical cadence and flow. He is too 
rich, and too conscious that he is rich, to fear the charge of endeavouring 
to pass himself off for such by the laying of his hands upon the riches of 
others. And here, indeed, is what properly determines whether an author 
should be adjudged by us as a plagiarist or not. The question is not, 
what he appropriates, but what proportion these appropriations bear to that 
which he has of his own ; whether if these were withdrawn, and resumed by 
their rightful owners, they would leave him poor. . . . We need not fear to 
allow Shakespeare to be tried by this rule: and we can only admire that 
inoble confidence in his own resources, which left him free without scruple 
fto adopt, and to turn to his own uses, whatever he anywhere found, which 
fvas likely to prove serviceable to the needs of his art.” 

These quotations from three eminent writers contain ample food for 
flection. 



(College SUHovltl, 

McGill. 

At a recent meeting of the Medical Association it was resolved on the motion 
of Mr. W. G. Johnston, seconded by Mr. Gooding, that the order of business 
henceforth shall consist of reports of cases, medical and surgical, instead of 
the usual reading. This is a capital idea, as it will largely increase the interest 
taken in the society by the students. All may not be willing to write a paper 
but any one can report an interesting medical or surgical case, and air his 
reading on the subject. 

The officers of the Medical Association for the next year are as follows : — 
President, Dr. J. A. MacDonald ; Vice-President, Renner, W. S. ; Second 
Vice-President, Rowell, G. B. ; Secretary, Darey, J. H. ; Treasurer, Addir- 
son, J. L. ; Librarian, Elder, J. 

Councillors. — Drs. Stephen, G. T. Ross and Mr. McLure ; Pathologist, 
W. G. Johnston. 

A meeting of those undergraduates interested in the formation of a Lawn 
Tennis Club was held on the 25th, inst. After hearing a report of the trea- 
surer of last year the following officers were elected for the coming season : — 
President, J. R. Murray ; Secretary, J. Stirling ; Treasurer, J. B. Burland. 
Committee. — W. G. Johnston and D. L. McPherson. It was resolved to 
make arrangements with the foot-ball club so that the courts could be used 
in the Fall as well. — Play has commenced. 

McGill University. 

Faculty of Arts. 

University Examinations — passed for the Degree of B.A. — In Honours. — Alphabetically 

Arranged. 

First Rank. — Barlow, Alfred E., Bland, Charles E., Cameron, John D., 
Dixon, Wellington., England, Luther M., Lee, Archibald, Murray, J. Ralph, 
Porter, James A. 

Ordinary. [In order of Merit.] [1] McGill College. Class I. — Scrim- 
ger, Alexander, Greenshields, Robert A. E. Class II. — Ross, Lewis E., 
Dickson, James A.; Kinnear, George, Shearer, William K., equal ; O’Hal- 
loran, George F., Fraser, William, Hunter, Walter, B.C.L. Class III. — 
Duffett, Henry J., Richardson, Alexander W. [2] Morrin College. Class I . — 
Mackie. John F., Brown, Albert J., Ross, John T. Class II. — None. Class 
III. — McLeod, Norman. 

Passed the Intermediate Examination. 

[1] McGill College. Class I. — McFarlane, James A., I^ochhead, William, 



Climie, William, Stewart, William G., Martin, J. C., McArthur, Archibald. 
Class II.— McLean, John A.. Hargrave, Isaac L., Calder, George F., Ellis, 
John D., equal ; Blair, George A., McLennan, George A., Thompson, G. J. 

A. , MacVicar,J. Harvey. Class III. — McLennan, HughS., Colquhoun, A. 
H. Urquhart, Robertson Philip M., Currie, Walter T., Budden, Hanbury, 
Currie, Alexander, Osborne, Alfred C., Grant, Andrew S., Higgins, Joseph H., 
Roberts, W. D. [2] Morrin College .— Class /.—Laurie, Archibald, Home, 
W. A., Walters, A. H. Class II— Silver, J. H., Campbell. H Class III— 
Ross William C. A. [3] St. Francis College. Class I. — None. Class II. — 
None. Class III. — Parmelee, George. 

Bachelor of Arts Proceeding to the Degree of M.A. in Course. 
Cunningham, Thos. E., B.A., Craig, James A., B.A., Keays, Chas. H., 

B. A., Newnham, Jarvis A., B.A., Whillans, Robert, B.A. 

Master of Arts Proceeding to the Degree of LL.D. in Course. 

Roy, James, M.A. 

Admitted “Ad Euxdem Gradum.” 

Guignard, J. A., B.A , (University of France.) 

College Examinations. 

Graduating Class. 

B.A. Honours in Mathematics and Natural Philosophy. Murray, J. 
Ralph. — First Rank Honours and Anne Molson Gold Medal. 

B.A. Honours in Classics. Bland, Chas. E.— First Rank Honours and 
Henry Chapman Gold Medal. Lee, Archibald. — First Rank Honours. 

B. A. Honours in Natural Science. Porter, James A. — First Rank Honours 
and Logan Gold Medal. Barlow, Alfred E. — First Rank Honours. England, 
Luther M. — First Rank Honours. 

B.A. Honours in Mental and Moral Philosophy. Cameron, John D. — 
First Rank Honours and Prince of Wales Gold Medal. 

B.A. Honours in English Language , Literature and History. Dixon, 
Wellington. — First Rank Honours and Shakespeare Gold Medal. 

Special Certificates,. — Scrimger, Alexander. — Special Certificate of First 
Class General Standing. Greenshields, Robert. — Special Certificate of First 
Class General Standing. 

Third Year. 

Mackay, A. A. — First Rank Honours and Prize in Mathematical Physics ; 
First Rank General Standing ; Prize in Latin. 

Mabin, Jas. — First Rank Honours in Mental and Moral Philosophy and 
Prize ; First Rank Genera! Standing ; Prize in Zoology ; Prize for Collection 
of Plants. 

Rondeau, S. — First Rank Honours in Modern Languages and Prize ; First 
Rank General Standing. 

Cameron, K. — First Rank Honours in Natural Science. 

Uns worth, J. K. — First Rank Honours in English Literature and History. 
Turner, W. H. — First Rank Honours in English Literature and History. 
Rogers, George. — Second Rank Honours in Natural Science. 

Masse, Godfroi. — First Rank General Standing ; Prize in Zoology. 

Marceau, Jas. — P'irst Rank General Standing; Prize in French. 

Christie, Wm.— First Rank General Standing. 

Blackader, E. H. — Prize for Collection of Plants. 

Kirkpatrick, R. C. — Prize for Collection of Plants. 

Passed the Sessional Examinations. 

Mackay, Masse, Rondeau, Marceau ; Christie and Mabion, equal ; 
Kennedy ; Hawthorne and Parent and Unsworth, equal ; Wright, Turner, 
Lariviere, Kirkpatrick ; Cameron [K.] and Pedley, equal ; Blackader, 
Rogers, Gerrie. 

Second Year. 

Climie, William. — [Listowel High School, Ont.] — First Rank Honours 
and Prize in Mathematics ; First Prize in Logic ; First Prize in English ; 
First Rank General Standing. 

Lochhead, Wm — [ Listowel High School, Ont.]— Second Rank Honours 
in Mathematics ; Second Prize in English ; First Rank General Standing. 

McFarlane, J. A. — [Portage du Fort School.] — F'irst Rank General Stand- 
ing ; Prize in Hebrew and Stewart Prize in Hebrew. 

Stewart, W. G.— [Lachute Collegiate Institute].— First Rank General 
Standing ; Second Prize in Logic. 

Passed the Sessional Examinations. 

McFarlane, Lochhead, Climie, Stewart, Martin, McArthur, McLean [J. C.] 
Hargrave ; Calder and Ellis, equal ; Blair, McLennan, [G. A.], Thompson, 
MacVicar, McLennan [H. S.], Colquhoun [A. H. U.], Robertson, Currie 
[A.], Osborne, Currie [W.T.J, Budden, Grant, Higgins, Roberts. 

Third Year. 

Macdougall, John.— [Huntingdon Academy, Q.] First Rank Honours 
and Prize in Mathematics ; First Rank General Standing. 

Kerry, J G. — [High School, Montreal.] — First Rank General Standing. 
Patterson, Wm. — [Huntingdon Academy, Q.] — First Rank General 
Standing ; Prize in Classics. 

Livingstone, C. H. — [City Grammar School, St. John, N.B.] — First Rank 
General Standing ; Prize in English ; Prize in Chemistry. 

Swabey, C. — [St. Peter’s School, Charlottetown]. — First Rank General 
Standing. 

McRae, D. N. — [St. Catharines, Ont.] — First Rank General Standing. 



1 883.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY MAGAZINE. 



Ritchie, P. E. — [High School, Montreal.] — Prize in Classics; Prize in 
French ; Prize in German. 

Rochester, W. M. — [Ottawa Collegiate Institute.] — Prize in Classics. 

Passed the Sessional Examinations. 

Kerry, Patterson, Macdougall, Livingstone, Swabey, McRae, Ritchie, 
Rochester, McOuat, Sparling, Wallace, Clerk, McKerchar, Chalmers, Hib- 
bard, Pedley ; Fyles and Stevenson, equal ; Thomas, Dewar, Holden, 
[E. D. F.], Craig, Clements, Dalpe, Sanders. Aeger, Evans, [W. H.] 

Anne Molson Mathematical Prize. 

In September, 1882, the Anne Molson Mathematical Prize was awarded, 
after a special Examination, to J. Ralph Murray [4th Year]. 

N*w Shakspeare Society’s Prize. 

On the merits of an examination held in January, 1883, the New Shaks- 
peare Society’s Prize was awarded to Alexander Scrimger [4th Year]. 

The following is the prize and honour list of the Science Faculty : — 
Graduating Class. 

Donaldson Bogart Dowling — Lome Medal ; $50 exhibition ; Leslie Skel- 
ton Prize ; Certificates of Merit in Applied Mechanics, Designing, Hydraul- 
ics, Bridge-Construction, Thermo-Dynamics and the Steam Engine. William 
Henry Howard — First Rank Honours in Natural Science ; Certificate of 
Merit in Assaying. 

Passed the examination for the degree of Bachelor of Applied Science. — 
Civil Engineering (Advanced course). Donaldson Bogart Dowling. 

Civil Engineering (Ordinary course) — In order of Merit. — James McEvoy, 
Richard F. Smith. 

Mining Engineering. — William Henry Howard. 

Third Year. 

Cecil Brunswick Smith. — The Scott Exhibition ; Mathematical Prize of 
$25 ; Prizes in Mathematics, Experimental Physics, Descriptive Geometry, 
Surveying, Applied Mechanics and Materials. David Ogilvy— Prizes in 
Mathematics, Surveying and Geology. William Graham — Prize in Mechan- 
ical Work. 

Passed the Sessional Examinations. — Civil Engineering (Advanced 
course). — In order of Merit.— Cecil Brunswick Smith, David Ogilvy, John 
McDonald. Civil Engineering (Ordinary course)— In order of Merit— John 
M. McKenzie, Allan R. Davis, John L. Hislop.— Mechanical Engineering.— 
In order of Merit.— William Graham, Duncan Donald McTaggart. Mining 
Engineering— Joseph Alfred Robert. Practical Chemistry— Edward Henry 
Hamilton. 

Second Year. 

Hedley Vicars Thompson.— Mathematical Prize of $25 ; Prizes in Des- 
criptive Geometry ; Surveying, Mechanism and Mathematics. Ernest Mc- 
Court Macy.— The Burland Exhibition of $100; Prizes in Mathematics and 
Practical Chemistry. Charles William Trenholme. — Prizes in Zoology and 
Experimental Physics. Samuel Fortier. — Prizes in Materials and French. 

Passed the Sessional Examinations.— Civil Engineering.— In order of 
Merit.— Hedley Vicars Thompson, Samuel Fortier, Samuel Henry Pitcher. 
Mining Engineering, in order of merit. — Charles William Trenholme, Ernest 
McCourt Macy, Edward Payson Mathewson. 

First Year. 

Nevil Norton Evans.— Prizes in Mathematics and French. Arthur Weir. — 
Prize in Chemistry. Walter Frederick Ferrier.— Prizes in Freehand Drawing 
and Chemistry. 

Passed the Sessional Examinations.— In order of Merit.— Nevil Norton 
Evans, Walter Frederick Ferrier, Arthur Weir, Charles Percy Brown ; Geo. 
Herbert Dawson and Thomas William Watson, equal ; Daniel Taylor, Wm. 
Cyrus Perkins. 

Professor Moyse’s Address to the Graduating Class. 

Delivered at the recent Arts Convocation. 

I need make no apology for addressing specifically those on whose behalf 
we have met here to-day. I would it were in my power to say to them some- 
thing around which pleasant memories might gather, and which might lend an 
incentive to wise and beneficial work. But I have to make an apology for 
speaking in a manner free from the formalism with which such addresses as 
this are associated and in words often very humble and plain. Still I may 
hope that they will not on this account be less fitting or trustworthy. 

Time and circumstance now place you, gentlemen Graduates, at the summit 
of your academical hopes, but it may be doubted whether any one of you has 
pondered— perhaps I might well add, has secured leisure to ponder— on the 
influences which have been modifying your thoughts, modifying them 
quietly, unobtrusively, yet permanently, during the last four years. Their 
effect will remain, that you must soon learn,— will remain for good or ill, for 
content or discontent, for praise or blame. You may imagine that days of 
despondency are far off You are happy in the consciousness of greater 
attainments than are won by your fellow-men in the gross, or presuming on 
your intellectual worth when it shall be brought face to face with the emer- 
gencies of practical life, you view to-day your future careei with equanimity. 
And vet if the experience of mankind may be trusted, disappointment in 
some form or other awaits you. I do not speak of the disappointment which 
falls to the lot of people in general, but disappointment peculiar to your- 
selves -disappointment that others except those situated as you are can 
scarcely ever know, and can certainly never feel as intensely as can cultured 



minds. It may be that you have just studied critically the finer beauties of 
language — those lights and shades of expression that reveal in all their 
distinctness and force the choicest passages of classic authors and lo, when 
your exultation and banquets are done, you are hurried away to spend your 
days in teaching the very rudiments of grammar to a wayward and seem- 
ingly a thankless class. You may be deeply learned in mathematics or 
intimately acquainted with the technical minutiae of natural science, but the 
time is coming to some of you when your energies will be expended in 
instructing others in the fundamental principles of arithmetic or in brief 
talk about the merest elements of zoology or botany. And the remarks I 
made a few moments ago hold good in regard to others whose lives are not 
to be given up to teaching. These may have taken their degree in Arts to 
enjoy a more varied mental life, or to be enabled to discuss reasonably and 
wisely matters of interest to all, or to profit by the status a degree is sup- 
posed to confer on those who own it, or simply because its possession is a 
mark of some culture, or possibly because it will be a valuable addition to 
studies which are to form the earnest portion of life-work. But two ques- 
tions will intrude themselves on such among you as have been true and 
faithful students, whatever your future aim, and these questions will, unless 
rightly regarded, cause the disappointment already mentioned, especially if 
your daily toil is severe or distasteful. The first of these — what good is 
my academical training to me ? — demands for the answering more time than 
is at my disposal now, but the other— how can I keep my old intellectual 
love alive ? — seems appropriate and profitable. The perplexity and des- 
pondency it very often causes I once deeply felt, although my life now 
forbids me to feel it except in a partial, a very limited sense. 

There must be some of you that know the keen zest that knowledge 
pursued for her own sake creates. What matter if Alps arise on Alps ? 
Freed from the trammels of your University course, you will scale those 
you fancy. No uncongenial subject shall longer compel you to climb its 
forbidding heights, though you have the best of guides at your service. 
Rejoicing in your freedom, strong in your intellectual affections, you will 
wander as you please, and you are planning, some of you, I am sure of it, 
schemes whereby you will win greater mental vantage, greater mental 
pleasure. But you will find the hourly task sapping your ambitious resolve : 
you will, if that resolve is somewhat steadfast, partly gain the ascent and 
then in a moment of despondency you will turn and gaze on the plain 
beneath, especially if your path is not an educational one. Down there the 
every-day folk are hurrying to and fro absorbed in meaner but in needful 
pursuits, winning wealth, and setting righteous and unrighteous store by it — 
the majority of them dying in wilful ignorance, sometimes when too late 
repenting thereof, sometimes not. Your ambition was laudable, but you 
discover it to be inexpedient, to be harassing. You will go down to them 
and they will pipe to you on their scrannel pipes and you will dance 
in hollow and unsatisfying mirth. You think I am writing hyperbole, 
straining facts, trying to indulge in a pretty play of words. Not a whit. 
Whatever gift of tongue a man may have, however earnest he may be, there 
is no eloquence, no earnestness which can adequately impress on you the 
importance of cherishing in some form what you have hardly won. I could, 
did opportunity allow, read to you words glowing with the fervour of enthu- 
siasm, with the ardency of conviction : words uttered by men of diverse 
habits of thought, but all bearing witness to that despair which one of our 
poets in a happy comment calls leaden-eyed — despair begotten of ordinary 
life — heavy of eyes indeed, tired of head, sick of heart. But by the side of 
these are other words of thankfulness and of joy because of the soul of 
goodness that lay beneath evil appearance. How can I keep my old 
intellectual love alive? Not by falling into the common error of trying to 
compass vast realms of knowledge as soon as you are thrust out into active 
life. Keep your ambition by all means. Do not, to use familiar phrase, 
fling it away even though angels fell by it. But you will have to take to 
heart the need, the imperative need, and I might say the blessing of daring 
to be ignorant of some things. Thos. De Quincey, in a little book addressed 
to a young man who was anxious to improve his education, lays convincing 
stress on this point. It is simply the old truth, ars longa vita brevis , and 
whether you establish it by mathematical computation, as De Quincey oddly 
does in one place — showing there how small is the portion of general litera- 
ture an industrious reader can skim in the course of a long life as compared 
to the portion unread — and he gives his reader the merit of having conned 
some 20,000 books — or whether you establish it on a broader and more 
thoughtful basis, as he elsewhere does — asserting the majority of books to be 
mere repetitions and ephemeridce — the maxim holds good. Be men of few 
books, 1 beseech you, though the educationists of these days bid you snatch 
at every fact, great and small, relative to yourselves or irrelative thereto, or 
to anybody else for that matter. Knowledge is one thing, fact something 
vastly different. What you know you feel ; it forms a vital part of your being, 
actuates you from hour to hour ; you bring everything to it as to a touch- 
stone : but to be a heartless, unenthusiastic, aimless, chaotic gobbler — 
excuse the word, gentlemen — gobbler of odds and ends of other people’s 
thoughts is to degrade your noblest faculties and to make yourselves mere 
machines. There are enough “ Bookful blockheads ignorantly read, With 
loads of learned lumher in their head,” to slightly alter a well known 
couplet from Pope. And whatever your duties in life may be, you 
can, as a dear and highly-cultured friend of mine once phrased it, “ keep 
one of those great fellows always on the stocks ”. I need not say 
J who these great fellows are : you have been introduced, not more than 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



[May ist. 



introduced, to some of them since you entered college, but choose the 
great fellow you prefer and read him reverently — not in the spirit of shallow 
fault-finding, but as if he had a deeper insight into the complex problems 
of human actions and passions than you will likely ever have. The most 
valuable part of the library beneath can be placed on a very few shelves 
indeed, and you can secure its like with but little expense : but secure it 
and read it, and if you do not know how to read — for pitifully small is the 
number of men that are true readers — peruse Ruskin’s Sesame and Lilies 
or weigh Thomas Carlyle’s words on the choice of books. 

Himself the primrose path of dalliance treads, 

And recks not his own rede, — 

I fancy I hear the critical student exclaim of me. I plead “ not guilty,” 
gentlemen, for although I am obliged to read much and quickly, yet I should 
despond, should doubt if one week found me mentally stronger than the 
previous : in short — to use a plain Saxon phrase — should not know if I 
was getting on, unless I kept one of those great fellows on the stocks The 
most entertaining man I ever met, one whose memory was marvellous, 
whose breadth and, as I have since learnt, soundness of view were extra- 
ordinary, not less extraordinary than his accuracy in regard to worthful fact, 
showed me his library — the literary counteq^art of Sir Humphrey Davy’s 
scientific laboratory, which consisted of a few pipe stems and bottles, if I mis- 
take not : all these, however, instruments of mind, just as may be our more 
complicated apparatus of this age — and that library consisted of one shelf with 
about ten authors on it — Homer, Virgil, Dante, Shakespeare, Bacon, Des- 
cartes, Gibbon, Tennyson, Herbert Spencer. “ These books I read,” said 
the owner ; “ the others I play with : they are but satellites and do my 
library service.” It is profoundly true that the majority of great men, 
certainly the majority of earnest men, are men of few books. Macaulay’s 
classical training was not of the best at the outset, but you know how famous 
a scholar he became in later life — and simply by repetition. An author 
wa§ read and re-read until we find the reader so expert and ready that a 
year of his reading, reading accomplished under many difficulties, appears 
hardly credible. Do not. gentlemen, suffer yourselves to accept as gospel 
what every petty critic and reviewer blatantly asserts. There are reviews 
and reviews, but leave not refined gold for the course nugget, even if it be 
tJ 't — some of it undoubtedly is, but much of it, alas ! is worthless dross, 
jiep one of those great fellows always on the stocks. Insist on yourself, says 
person, wisely and well. Do not insist on yourself in print — if you have 
fie knowledge you will be chary of so doing, but insist on yourselves to 
ourselves. And, again, you know that the function of a University is a 
h/idijig function ; that, and nothing more. You should be enabled to discern 
/he gold I mentioned from dross, or better the wheat from the chaff which 
is blown about by every little breath. If you cannot do this, lay the fault 
at our door. Two months of honest reading, be the regular periods very 
brief, will, if you peruse great thoughts, endow you with the beginning of a 
library ; six months and you have passed beyond and above nine-tenths of 
the ephemeral publications that discuss the topics you have chosen ; ten 
years and you are an authority. You smile, but I am dealing with fact. 

S Secondly and lastly, and very briefly. However simple and trifling your 
intellectual work may seem, if you teach, you can do it better from having 
known its relations to other branches of knowledge than it had been done 
if your views had been circumscribed. These great fellows will not make 
you narrow, will not make you dissatisfied with, or cut you off from, your 
age. Wisely and persistently used they will enlarge your sphere of 
thought. One half of the darkness and bitterness of our day is 
caused by obliquity of vision. Men have not the courage to face 
new eventualities ; they look at them askance, timorously, instead of 
regarding them in a charitable way. The master painter can throw 
life into mathematical perspective, the greatest scientists of to-day 
have written science for schoolboys in simple and graceful English 
that has all the interest of a novel. Because they are sages they can be 
soundly simple. It may require talent, almost genius, to assume the mental 
attitude of others, but although you have been studying the fine lights and 
shades of language, Differential Equations, and what not, you may have 
made yourself, by so much the more, apt instruments as primary instructors. 
And let me in conclusion quote a few lines from perhaps the most wonderful 
poem ever wrritten in English ; words that I would have you learn by rote 
and often repeat : — 



Who loves not knowledge? Who shall 
' rail 

Against her beauty? May she mix 
With men and prosper ! Who shall fix 
Her pillars? Let her work prevail. 

But on her forehead sits a fire : 

She sets her forward countenance 
And leaps into the future chance, 
Submitting all things to desire. 

Half-grown as vet, a child, and vain, 
She cannot fight the fear of death. 
What is she, cut from love and faith. 
But some wild Pallas from the brain 

Of Demons? fiery-hot to burst 
All barriers in her onward race 



For power. Let her know her place : 
She is the second, not the first. 

A higher hand must make her mild, 

If all be not in vain ; and guide 
Her footsteps moving side by side 
With wisdom, like the younger childt 

For she is earthly of the mind, 

But Wisdom heavenly of the soul. 

O friend, who earnest to thv goal 
So early, leaving me behind. 

I would the great world grew like thee, 
Who grewest not alone in power 
And knowledge. but by year and hour 
In reverence and in charity. 



General. 

The Princetonian will become a weekly. 

McClure’s History of College Journalism is just out. 

Six hundred men daily frequent the gymnasium at Harvard.—^. 

Harvard is going to have a new dormitory which will cost $250,000. Ex. 

The average graduate of Ann Arbor spends $1,750 during the course. Ex. 

The term at Oxford and Cambridge is only six months long, the other 
six being vacation. — Ex. 

All the, English Cabinet save Mr. Chamberlain are University men— seven 
Oxford, six Cambridge. 

There are 145 college Y. M. C. A/s in the United States, with a member- 
ship of over 1,491 students. 

At Acadia College a resolution has been passed making the wearing cf 
caps and gowns compulsory. 

A college has been opened in Persia, under government protection. The 
professors are all graduates of European Colleges. 

We have not received the “ Tech. ” for about .five months. We hope 
that it will arrive more regularly next year. 

The Ifarvard Advocate of March 30th. is almost full of athletics. The 
remainder of the paper is very light and rather amusing. 

The editors of Astrum Alberti should keep out of their columns such 
very poor productions as the article on Evolution which appeared in their 
April number. 

An enquirer wants to know from what aspect the picture on the Presby- 
terian College Journal was taken. We are unable to give him the desired 
information. 

A National Catholic University is about to be established in the vicinity 
of New York, which the founders intend to make the equal of Yale or Har- 
vard. — Harvard Herald. 

Mrs. A. T. Stewart is building a new College in New York to cost 
$4,000,000. It will be the largest in America, non-sectarian, co-educational, 
and the expenses will be put at a low figure. 

Mr. John W. Garrett’s recent arraignment of his fellow trustees of Johns 
Hopkins University has excited deep interest throughout the country. He 
charges that they are not carrying out the wishes of the founder with suffi- 
cient haste, and that in the location of some buildings they are violating his 
wishes. 

The Argosy for March has r some creditable reading matter. The paper 
on Design in Nature is not without merit, but the writer should remember 
that harmony in nature does not prove design if the phenomena can be 
simply explained on other grounds. He should study the principle of 
Natural Adaption. 

The endowments and the number of students of some of the principal 
colleges in the United States are as follows: — Columbia — endowment, 
$5,300,000; income, $281,000; number of students, 1,587. Harvard — 
endowment, $903,000 ; income, $223,000 ; number of students, 879. Johns 
Hopkins — endowment, 83,500,000 ; income, $200,000 ; number of students, 
132. Yale — endowment, $1,500,000: income, $187,300; number of stu- 
dents, 656. — Ex. 

For the college year 1882-83, there were 1,096 students in attendance in 
the various departments of Yale. In the department of theology, 106 ; of 
medicine, 30 ; of law, 85 ; of philosophy and arts, 898. This gives a total 
of 1,119, from which 23 names are to be deducted for double insertion. On 
the other hand the Harvard catalogue f<y the same time shows an attend- 
ance of 1,657, of which number 27 study theology; 134, law; 229, medi- 
cine ; and 221 are officers and instructors. 

The new Faculty of Law at Dalhousie has been organized. The Gazette 
hopes that the Medical School in Halifax will soon become affiliated with 
the University, and we can easily understand that such an event would be 
for the benefit of both. Concentration always leads to increased efficiency. 
But what Dalhousie is most to be congratulated upon is the recent estab- 
lishment of two tutorships, one in Mathematics, and one in Classics, of the 
annual value of $1,000 each. The establishment of such tutorships is just 
what is wanted in our Canadian Colleges. We have spoken before on this 
subject in connection with our own University, and we are still of the 
opinion that it would serve educational interests more if something were 
done in this matter of fellowships than if the College were forced into the 
task of educating women. 

The Univet sit y Motithly has started upon the second year of its existence. 
During the past its condition has been rather unstable, but the editors are 
apparently starting again with renewed vigour. By the way, we notice a 
strange proposal in the March number, viz., that proficiency in Biblical 
knowledge should be required from candidates tor B.A. As at the same 
time the University is to remain non-sectarian, we presume that the Monthly 
recommends a critical study of the Scriptures simply as a masterpiece in 
litetature. It would be interesting to note the result of such a change, not 
only as far as it affected the feeling of reverence with which the Holy Writ 
is at present regarded by most students, but also as affording an exemplifi- 
cation of the degree to which Scriptural teaching can be carried without 
becoming in the slightest degree sectarian. We should rather not try the 



1883.. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



experiment ourselves. We notice, too, that the Monthly gives a table of 
mean temperatures for several years. This is a new idea for a college 

paper. 

We have received the following : — The Harvard Advocate, The Acadia 
Athenaeum , The ’ Varsity (2), St. Mary s Sentinel , Queen's College. Journal , 
The Argosy , The Dar mouth, L' Etincelle, University Monthly, Dalhousie , 
Gazette, Trinity Tablet, Brockville Recorder , Presbyterian College Journal , 
A strum Alberti. 



Instead of the thorn shall come up the fir tree, instead of the briar shall 
come up the myrtle tree, for behold there shall come from a bx field ont who 

4 J r . 1 • J _ « ... Un ha mlar nVPl* 



has been a faithful stewart over a few things, and now shall he be ruler over 



Between the lectures. 



Theolog. — What are you pegging at now Smith ? 

Jones. — [Science Student.] Palaeontology. 

Theolog. — I didn’t know Paley ever wrote on Tology. His Evidences of 
Christianity is all I ever read. 

Among the various other poetic effusions to be noticed this month is the 
production of a node to his shin by an out-patient of the M. G. H. It is a 
rash attempt . — Cui Bono ? 

Newspaper people, says an American journal, are proverbially temperate 
and virtuous. We believe one of the craft did get a “ little off ’’ a few weeks 
ago. and the following is a specimen of his broad sheet as it appeared next 
day : “ Yesterday morning at four a.m., a small man named Jones, Brown or 
Smith, with a heel in the hole of his trousers, committed arsenic by swallow- 
ing a dose of suicide. Yerdicate to the jury that the diseased come to the 
facts in accordance with his death. He leaves a child and six small wives 
to lament his utimely loss. 

Professor — “ Can you conceive of anything as being out of time and still 
occupying space ?” Student — “ Yes, sir, a poor singer in a chorus.” — Ex. 

Student [translating] : And — er — then — er — then — er — he — er — went 
and — er 

The Class laugh. 

Professor — Don’t laugh, gentlemen ; to err is human.” 



Why trenchant slang should we decry ? 

In its bold diction pray believe. 

If Eve had been sufficient “ fly ” 

To say when Satan tempted by : 

“ Not this Eve — another Eve,” 

“ Good Eve,” would then to her apply. 

— Exonian. 



‘ There shall be two grinding at the class, one shall be taken and the other 
left. Rejoice ye children of Gill-Coil ! From among the dead shall pass out 
one that shall charge ye that ye eat not of that which is accounted common 
or unclean, and shall teach ye to avoid the pestilence which walketh m 
darkness. In those days it shall come to pass that he that sitteth among 
you, swept and garnished like unto an ancient bridegroom, shall be gone from 
among you, and the place that knew him shall know him no more forever, for 
behold on his throne shall sit two of the best and meetest of your children, 
and they shall part between them the spoils thereof, and ye shall give ear 

unto them.’ . . . . „ - 

“ Howl, O ye children of Boshshop, for behold a giant shall go out from 

among you, and ye shall be left desolate.” 

Now, while he yet spake there entered unto them one well stricken in years, 
small of stature, and clad in the garb of a stripling, and behold it was the 
eleventh hour for he had tarried by the way. * ... 

And the rest of the acts of the kings of Gill-Coil, and all that they did not, 
are they not written in the Books of the chronicles of the kings of Gill Coll . 

Extract from the Diary of Samuel Pepys, Esq. W hile an 
Undergraduate at Cambridge. 



A Page from the Chronicles of the Kings of Gill-Coll. 

The following is an exact copy of a document found by Damphino Cook, 
B.S. Zn Cl, + H, S , the efficient Janitor of McGill Medical College. He 
found it in some remarkable way ; from his own lucid description our reporter 
concluded it was located in the Tertiary deposit in his bones. 

“ In those days it came to pass, in the early seed time, nigh on to the Pass- 
over, that the king, even the great Drawoh, called together in council the wise 
men and rulers of Gill-Coll [which being interpreted means the place of skulls] . 
Now when they were gathered together they hasted and tooK every man his 
own garment and put it on his seat under him, for they feared greatly certain 
of the children of Gill Coll that they should rob them. 

“Straightway the scribe, short of stature but of a mighty understanding, 
spake unto them saying : ‘ O wise men, rulers of Gill Coll, some one hath 
worked a treachery among us and stirred up the people. The tribes who 
have of late time come among us, even the first and second tribes, young 
men, children of Gill Coll, are angered and have waxed exceeding wroth ; 
they hiss and gnash their teeth at the doings of the High Priest, neither have 
his deeds found favor in their eyes. I hey have written unto us even a second 
time saying : Thy servant, the High Priest, is well stricken in years, he wax- 
eth old as doth a garment. He sayeth those things he ought not to say, 
neither sayeth he those things he should say. He has told us many things 
concerning herbs, yea, and of the Oxalate which is of Cerium, whereof for- 
sooth, we must take a little for our stomach’s sake when we go down to the 
sea in ships. He hath filled us with bitterness and gall, he hath made us 
drunken with wormwood. Howbeit for many years he hath told us no new 

t Moreover, because of the provocation he hath provoked them withal, 
the rebellious children have this day sent abroad a proclamation, about the 
time of the going down of the sun, saying, every man to his city and each 

man to his own tent.’ . , , , , r . . . . 

“ And behold when the scribe had made an end of speaking scraightway 
there was with them a hairy man girded with a girdle of leather about his 
loins Straightway the king spake unto him saying, ‘ What doest thou here ? 
But he settled his countenance steadfastly and answered him not, but hasted 
and took charcoal away from before his face, and the king discerned him 

that he was one of the rulers. . , - . 

“ After these things were accomplished straightway the king repaired to his 
chamber and rent his clothes and came forth and spake to the rulers of Gill- 
Coll and prophesied unto them saying : ‘ Listen, ye rulers, and hearken ye 
people of Gill Coll : Lo there shall come a blast upon this High Priest, he 
shall hear a rumor, and he shall return to his own tent, and we shall cause 
him to fall by his own hand Selah. 



April 7 th— This day a feast given by the Master and Fellows to the 
Undergraduates. Very handsome, and extraordinary good cheer. Turtle 
soup and various kinds of fish ; venison and other excellent meats , game 
and wildfowl a great store ; sweets in the modish French fashion, and 
kickshaws ; huge loving-cups filled with rare and toothsome drinks ; liquor 
of all kinds, more than enough ; quarter casks of port and sherry ordered 
for the occasion ; incomparable good claret, and champagne no end. 

9 th —Busy all the morning investigating a case of continued fractions 
among my cups and saucers My junior bedmaker says they were broke 
“ afore she come but I fear me much that, as hath been well said, it is 
not contrary to experience that witness may be false. ’ f . 

r 5th.— To the Botanical Gardens, where I saw great variety of wildfowl 
which I never saw before ; but that which I went chiefly to see wa* the 
young ladies of the school, whereof there is great store, very pretty. Mighty 
busy all the morning lying on the grass reading of a novell. Came and sat 
near me two young ladies with books in their hands, one of whom I approv e 
to be very handsome, and began talking with great propriety of speech, in 
the most engaging manner possible ; but I took no notice of, nor even so 
much as looked at them ; so presently they away . 

17th. (Lord’s Day.)— Minded to go to Great St. Mary’s to hear the 
sermon ; but went to the Backs instead, where lay on the grass thinking 
for more than two hours, to my great content. 

^oth. — Played in our Second Eleven against the Trinity First ; but, as 
luck would have it, bowled the first ball both innings, and made two ducks. 
Ca’ched a baU bravely at long leg, with great applause of all in the tent 
who mightily cheered me. 

In the evening to Newton’s to sup, where excellent discourse ; among 
the rest John Milton and Duns Scotus, a grave fine gentleman.]; Mighty 
merry doing of Algebra, and other things the like divertising , but what 
most extraordinary clever was some Mathematical proofs § Newton shewed 



* A good example of the hospitality of our ancestors, and one worthy ot imita- 
tion in the present day. — E d. 

t Mav we not infer here, from the language employed by our author, that he 
was at this period engaged in reading for his ‘ Little-Go ’ ? 

+ It has been again objected to here, that Pepys could not by any possibility 
have met Duns Scotus, since tha latter was a ‘philosopher who lived in the 
thirteenth and fourteenth centuries, while Pepys was not even born till the 
seventeenth. This is cavilling. Read our author in a calm, dispassionate, and 
impartial spirit, and we venture to assert that not a single instance of wilful 
misrepresentation will be found in his pages. Duns Scotus is indeed reported 
to have flourished in the above-named centuries; but his every action, nay, his 
whole life is shrouded in mystery, and we may shrewdly question* the fact of his 
existence at all ! Napoleon Bonaparte has been proved in the most conclusive 
manner to be a mythical personage; and if Bonaparte, why not Duns Scotus? 
It mav be urged that this is not to the point; that were this the case, vet our 
author’s reputation for veracity would still be liable to be impugned. This is 
entirelv a mistake. We do not dispute the existence of a Duns Scotus, but of 
the Duns Scotus. The use of the indefinite instead of the definite article clears 
up the mystery. How quickly difficulties vanish when we apply a little common 



§ We rather from authentic sources that the following is one of the proofs 
referred to by our author. We give it in the words of Newton. — Ed. 

To prove that 10 is even. ‘ The number 10 being the radix of the common 
scale of notation, it is of the utmost importance that we should satisfy our minds 
fuliv as to whether it is odd or even. It has been suggested that the simplest 
mode of proceeding would be to divide 10 bv 2, observing whether there be any, 
and if anv, what remainder. It will, however, appear evident to every true 
mathematical mind that the annexed proof has far superior claims to our con- 
i sideration. 

We have 6 = 5 /A 

9= IX; 

.-.by substraction — 3=5... .(1). 

Again, we have 7 —SEVEN : 

But by (1) —z=S : 

.-. substracting again 10 is EVEN, c^e.d. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[May i st, 



r , ’TrrtlcirT^did 



— vr-rrTcli 1 did not know before, and indeed they talk for him to be 
Senior Wrangler ; and I think he will, for he is a man of parts though 
superficial. He told us of a certain project of his about an apple and the 
earth ; very ingenious, but too refined to be true. 

May 6th. — Up and so to bed.* 

loth. — Came to me W. Batten, and did much commend the new novell 
which all the world cry up, called “ The Man without a Head ; ” and 
persuaded me to buy it, which I did, but thought it a poor simple piece, 
with but two murders and one suicide, and no elopements or running away 
with men’s wives in the whole book. It is set down to the same hand 
that writ “ No Bones Broken,” and “ The Deuce of Trumps,” with what 
truth I know not. 

In the afternoon to Fenner’s, to see a match at cricket between the 
Hyperbolas and Parabolas, but methought mighty slowe for them that 
looked on ; so to the river, where it was pretty to observe a Trinity Hall 
eight upset by a funny near the bridge, and Lord, how like drownded rats 
the men seemed when they got out of the water ! 

1 6th. — To the eight-oar races ; and we have great hopes to be head of 
the river. What a press of people on the bank ! And I had liked to have 
been pushed into the river, and saw but little after all, and only one bump 
though there were several made. Very hoarse shouting “ Well rowed,” 
“ Now you’re gaining,” “ Pick her up,” “ NOW ! ! ! ” I would have run the 
whole course, but could not for the crowd and for want of breath. Walked 
not back, but by barge, where a shrewd fellow sang many diverting songs 
without any musique ; prickt and played all along upon a harpsicon most 
admirably. 

21st. — To the boats again, this being the last day of the races. To 
‘ Grassy ’ where many fine carriages, but fewer running than on the other 
side. Comes to me John Doe, a good right honest man, but his red nose 
makes me ashamed to be seen with him, so cast about how to get rid 
of him, which I did by making as if I would speak with one on horse- 
back. 

Presently come the boats : Downing first, but sore pressed by Magdalene, 
and put hard to get to Grassy, where we bumped them, with much applause 
of all, and to my especial content, for I gain near five shillings, for which 
my heart was glad and blessed God. 

ie order of the boats now stands thus : Magdalene, Downing, Catharine, 
Clare. What comes next I forget, but I think Pembroke, 
the evening to me W. Hewer, and tells me of the newe book he has 
mind to write, entitled “ Phrenology or the Study of Bumps, with 
:ial reference to the Head of the River,” which is a most excellent 
i to my thinking. 

rd. — By nine of the clock to the boat supper, which was indeed a 
le supper and in great state and fashion, and incomparable good 
punch. Mighty merry singing of shongs, speshally, ‘ For he’s a jolly go 
\ flo, with a hie — hooray’ — I shay, olflo, you’re schrewed — it's a way we 
l have in the ’Varsity — Letsh sing a shong — call Hie — hooray again again 
' ' Hoo — Come brekfhus me morrer ? Detsh alone, I’m alri, olflo — Hooray 
Sr fusbo — three cheers ladish hie ***** [The MS. is so confused at this 
"^oint as to be totally unintelligible.— E d.] 

* 24th. — 4.30 p.m. Brandy and soda water. J* 

* “ Up and so to bed.” This passage has given much trouble to comment- 
ators. Without offering any decided opinion of our own as to its meaning, we 
append the remarks of several learned critics. — Ed. 

‘ Up and so to bed.’ The meaning of these words is perfectly clear if they 
_ be but correctly written. Pepvs has omitted four letters, an s before ‘ up,’ and 
' p, e, d after. Supplying these we get, ‘ s ipped and so to bed,’ which makes the 
passage as clear as the day. What more natural or more usual than to go to bed 
after supper?” — Smith. 

Upon this another commentator remarks : A most preposterous idea, worthy 

of the carping spirit and shallow intellect of a Smith. ‘ Supped and so to bed ’! 
Can any one acquainted with the simple but beantiful language of our Author 
suppose for a moment that he could have written such utter nonsense ? The 
evident reading is ‘ up and soon to bed,’ meaning merely that, wearied with a 
more than ordinary consumption of the midnight oil, Pepys had sought his 
couch at an earlier hour than usual. By distorting, as most commentators do 
this beautiful passage, the excellent example set by our Author to the students 
of this University is entirely lost.” — Jones. 

“ ‘ Up and so to bed.’ These words present a notable iustance of that covert 
satire of which Pepys is so great a master. Do we not at once see that by this 
simple entry Pepys ‘would express in graphic language the barrenness of the day 
in matters worthy of note? The only events therefore which he thinks necessary 
' to record are his rising from, and his retiring to rest.”— Brown. 

“ Whv should the plain sense of this passage be disguised by the shallow 

suggestions of empty-brained commentators? The words as they stand in the 

text are of themselves amply sufficient to express the writer’s meaning. How 
couM any one go to bed without having previously got up?” — Robinson. 

t A sad spectacle, alas! of human infirmity. How should we rejoice that the 
enlightenment of the present age effectually checks those degrading spectacles, 
with* which, we fear, the eyes of our ancestors were but too familiar. — Ed. 

personals. 

C. E. Cameron M.D. is persuing his medical studies in London, Eng. 
McGill’s reputation will not suffer with Cameron as her representative. 

It is with great regret we have to announce the serious illness of our popu- 
lar lecturer in anatomy, Dr. Scott. 

Dr. Maher is practising in New York City. We wish him every success. 






Mr. Wyatt Johnston has been on the shelf lately with a very bad optic. 

All Iritis this. . , , 

Good Students are always welcome at McGill. We are glad to see among 
us from the Kingston Medical School, Messrs. Cunningham, VV ebster and 
Daley for the summer session. 

W. E. Dickson, ’83, late President of the Undergraduates, Law faculty, 
has been suffering during the past month from a severe attack of Typhoid 
fever. We learn that he is now slowly recovering, and we hope to see him 

soon entirely restored. . 

W. Dixon, B. A., ’83, has received a temporary appointment as Head- 
master of one of the city schools. 

( i 0 r vesp 0 n cUn c e. 

Undergraduates’ Literary Society. 



Sir, 



To the Editor of the McGill University Gazette. 



I should like the Undergraduates in Arts to carry home with them a 
reminder of the work and uses of our Literary Society. It is to be regretted 
that we have to acknowledge a want of support on the part of students in 
the younger years towards this valuable institution. Formed at the begin- 
ning of the session 1 880-1 881, by the students of the then Sophomore year, 
it included, this session, for the first time the whole four years. The class 
which formed it and which has so faithfully and energetically carried on its 
work, is now graduating. In these members we lose not only the founders 
of the Society but also some of our best debating talent. How suggestive 
are the names of Murray, Shearer, Greenshields, Hunter and England, of 
the eloquent debates of the session 80-8 r, when the Pacific Railway con- 
tract, the new Government’s policy, and many other “ live ” questions were 
animatedly discussed ! New men have come to the front and show them- 
selves well able to sustain the reputation of the Society, but there is one 
draw-back which needs remedy. It is absolutely necessary that members 
should agree to give a certain amount of time to prepare their debates, 
until they have reached that stage when thought and speech flow quickly 
and smoothly. The success of our meetings during the past session was 
marred by the evident and persistent lack of preparation on the part of the 
appointed speakers in the debates, and the Society suffered through a 
diminished attendance at its meetings and also in other respects. Yet to 
show that the students still held the Society in direct remembrance and 
and that it was only the unattractive reputation the debates had acquired 
which kept them from attending, a lecture by Professor Murray drew a 
large and enthusiastic audience. Dr. Murray’s recommendation increased 
the interest in the Society, but the excellence in the programme not being 
always sustained (through no fault of the committee I feel bound to state), 
the meetings toward the close of the session were highly unsatisfactory. 
But harping upon these now old grievances will not mend matters, and 
my object is simply to urge the three college years to make up their minds 
to give the Literary Society next session that measure of their attention 
which it deserves. There is only needed such a resolution on all our parts 
to establish the Society next session upon a really solid basis. We can 
then undertake to invite the new Freshmen into a good training school for 
public speaking, — this leaving no doubt that this truly useful work will be 
carried on after we join the “noble army of graduates.” I hope the 
Arts’ students will take all this in good part. It is from one who, though 
never an officer of the Society, has endeavoured to the best of his humble 
ability to contribute to its success, and can cheerfully bear witness to the 
unflagging interest which its officers from first to last have manifested in 
its welfare. The only thing now needed to attain success is general sup- 
port from the students. 

============== ^ A. H. U. C. 

fjjfoelrij. 

TO A FLOWER. 



( From Alfred 

Tell me thy meaning, flowret dear, 

Thou flagrant, charming souvenir; 
Whose gift art thou, sweet violet, 

That seem’st half-dying, half-coquette ? 

Securely guarded by a seal, 

Hast thou long travels to reveal ? 

Tell me some tidings of the maid 
Who plucked thee from thy modest shade, 

Canst thou be nothing but a flower 
Enshrouded for the final hour ? 

Or does thy heart some secret hold. 
That ere thou diest must be told ? 

Thy blossoms, stainless as the light 
Or childhood’s innocence, are white : 
Thy tender leaflets, moist with dew, 

Of trembling hope still wear the hue. 

Hast thou no mission to complete? 
Speak — I am silent and discreet — 

Is there a meaning in thy tint, 



De Musset .) 

And does thy fragrance breathe a hint? 

Fair messenger! if this be so, 
Mysterious herald, whisper low : 

If thou hast nothing to confide, 

Rest in my bosom, like a bride, 

But, if I err not. in the grace 
Of this momento I can trace 
The tenderly capricious hand, 

That tied my blossoms in a band, 

’Tis soft and white of beauty rare, — 
The sculptor’s envy and despair — 

And he who wins it will have won 
The daintiest prize beneath the sun. 

But, since her coy reserve would blush 
To hear my praise, dear flowret, hush ! 
Breathe not her name ! Enough twould 
seem 

Of loveliness like hers to dream. 
Montreal. Geo. Murray. 



f 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



PERHAPS ? 



7 ( From the French of Gustave Nadaud .) 

horse ! To horse ! I mount with speed, Murmured 
a For we must travel far, mv steed, 

To finrl rPnnQP • 



To find repose : 

Thy master’s brain is crazed with care. 
And we must gallop apace, but where ? 
Who knows ? 



I love thee,” now I say, 
Ye lied.” 



Oh ! how that golden-haired coquette 
Dreamed she had caught me in the net 
Of her disdain ! 

The Siren is so fair, so cold. 

That the same kingdom cannot hold 
Us twain. 



Shame on the wayward, heartless elf, 
Who will not tenderly herself 
My passion share, 

But jealously refuses still 
To let me wander at my will 
Elsewhere ! 



Around her castle-walls each day, 

My steed and I with spirits gay 
Were wont to roam : 

Yon path, familiar grown to each, 

We now must shun, or we should reach 
Her home. 



On, on my steed ! ’tis just the hour, 
That, in the gloaming, to her bower 
Her slave would bring: 
Now from the hateful sport I fly, 
And with no tear-drop in my eye, 

I sing. 



Those faithless gods to which I bowed, 
Her charms that lured me made her 
proud, 

Her hair, her eyes 
Blue as the cloudless heaven above, 

I ler lips, that seemed to breathe of love 
In sighs. 



But what is here? The velvet lawn, 
Her home, amid the shade withdrawn — 
It must be so — 

O thoughtless man ! O heedless brute ! 
That failed to recognize which route 
To go ! 



At length, my heart hath burst its chain, 
And, as my freedom I regain, 

1 curse her pride, 

And to my lips, that day by day 



Turn back ! but no — stand still ! for she 
Is smiling at the casement — see 
Her finger-tips ! 

’Twere churlish not to say “ Good-bye 
When daylight dawns, my steed and I 
Afar from Circe’s bower will fly, 

PERHAPS? 



Montreal. 



Geo. Murray. 



gist of Hem fSJoofes Slccciucd. 

(From 2 2nd March , 1883.) 



Schlegel — Physionomie des Serpens. 

Bovey [H. T.] Applied Mechanics. Vol. I. 

Burnside & Panton. — The Theory of Equations. 

Hasham & Edwards. — Conic Sections. 

Poole. — Index to Periodical Literature. Brought down to January, 1882. 



Canada. — Report of Chief Engineer on Canals, 1880. 

Bentham [Jeremy], The Works of. 22 Volumes. 

Bow. — Economics of Construction as applied to frame work. 
Bailes. — Students’ Guide to Coal and Metal Mining. 

Quebec.. — Sessional Papers, 1881-82 Vol. XV. No. 2. 

Do. Report of Superintendent of Education for 1881-82. 
United States. — Professional Papers for 1873. 

Encyclopaedia Britannica. Vol. XV. 

Penleux. — Le Constructed. 

United States Coast and Geodetic Survey for 1880. 

Library, 23rd April, 1883. 

M. Williams Taylor. 






A sst. -Librarian. 

Besides the above, two hundred volumes have been presented by the 
McGill Book Club during the month. 



THE McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE is printed and published for the 
Proprietors by the Gazette Printing Company, Montreal, at their Office, 
corner of St. Francois Xavier and Craig Streets. 



^ducrtisjcmcuts. 



CAMPBELL LAM, B.A., B.C.L., 



ADVOCATE, BARRISTER, ATTORNEY AND SOLICITOR, 



163 ST. JAMES STREET, 

IMrOlSTTRE-A-Ij 



Macmaster, Hutchinson, Knapp & Weir, 

ADVOCATES 

^otiiritors. 



DONALD MACMASTER, Q,C. M. HUTCHINSON, B.C.L. 

F. A. KNAPP, B.C.L. R. S. WEIR, B C.L. 



Surgical Instruments. 



WM. HILL, 



PROFESSOR OF 



Crinicultural Abscission 



CRANIOLOGICAL TRIPSIS, 

ST. LAWRENCE HALL 



No. 1323 St. Catherine Street, 

MONTREAL. 






A FULL STOCK CONSTANTLY ON HAND 

IMPORTED DIRECT 



G. W. CLARKE, 

IMPORTER OF 

Books, Stationery, 



FINE FANCY COODS, NOVELTIES, &c. 

my stock: ok 



"BADING MANUFACTURERS 

OF THE WORLD. 

,ja- an inspection invited. 



NEW GOODS FOR THE HOLIDAYS 

WILL BE FOUND THE FINEST IN THE DOMINION, AND THE 



Christmas and New Year Cards 



YmanSons&Co. 

T84 sy PAUL ST. 



Will also be superior to anything ever imported. 

X&* CALL AND EXAMINE STOCK. 



G. W. CLARKE, 

238 & 240 St. James Street. 






I 



10 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



• • i 



McGill College Text Books 



DRWSON BROTHERS 




WHOLESALE AND RETAIL 



Keep always on hand a full supply of all the TEXT BOOK 
in use at the College. 

Also, STATIONERY IN ALL VARIETY. 

Students’ Note Rooks. Students’ Pocket Ink Bottles. 

— AND — 

AOTE PAPER and EXVELOPES stamped with the 
University I>ie, for the use of Students. 

FOR SALE AT 

150 "bo 165 S"b. James Stmeel. 



WM. NOTHAN « SON, 



Booksellers and Stationers 



Photographers 



tn the fliififin, 



College Text Books 

A SPECIALITY. 

SUPPLIED AT BOTTOM PRICES. 



I W 



M V I I 



17 and 19 Bleury Street, 



MONTREAL. 



» STYLISH OUTFIT IS 



“Steppin an’ C us,” 

AM) VE WILL MAKE YOU TIIE CENTRE OF ADMIRATION. 



THE BOSTON 

CLOTHING HOUSE, 

STILISH AND LOW-FRICED. 

CLOTHIERS AND GENTS’ FURNISHERS, 

4-1 & 43 ST. JOSEPH ST., 



MONTREAL. 

WHOLESALE AND RE- 



Students’ Note Books— a fine assortment- 

Standard Works, 

School Books, 

Maps, Globes, &e 

232 ST. TA JITS STREET, 

AND — 

1423 ST. CA. T II Eli TEE STREET, 
MONTREAL.- 



B. D. Johnson & Son, 



DEAEERS IN 



BOOTS & Sin 



13 AND 15 



< 



* \ 




