Vol. VII. 



No. 9 



McGILL 




Saturday, March 22nd, 1884. 




Evening in Seed-Time 
Editorials 
Contributions - 



CONTENTS: 



PACE. 



1 

1-2 

2-7 



College World ...... 

Between the Lectures 

Results of Examinations — Law and Medicine 



PAGE. 

7-10 

10-11 

11 



MONTREAL : 

“ WITNESS” PRINTING HOUSE. ST. JAMES STREET WEST. 

1S84 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Trenholme, Taylor 4 Dickson, 

Jz&'joczzss, jEzzorneys, dbc. 

13 HOSPITAL STREET, 

MON TREAL. 

N. w. Trenholme, M.A., B.C.L. A D. Taylor, B. A. B.C.L. w. e, Dickson, b.C.L. 

WM. B. S. REDDY, B.C.L. 
Commissioner for the Provinces of Oueoec, Ontario & Manitoba, 

1 IS ST. JAMES STREET. 



MAGMAOTH HUTGHINSON h WEIR, 

flaw if kf if W' tf ^ tf W y w' ^ W ^ w' ^ « 

162 ST. JAMES STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

Donald Macmaster, Q.C. m Hutchinson, b.C.L. R. S. Weir, B.C.I.. 

Qreenshields, mgGorkill & Querin, 

ABY ©CATES, 

Sa'wUhH, Jkhrtmjb, SoMdtoH f ^c. 

CHAMBERS: EXCHANGE BANK BUILDING, 

1 OS St. Francois JEcuvier* St 



J. N. Greenshields. 



MONTREAIj. 

J. C. McCorkill 



Edmund Guerin. 



CHARLES CUSHING, B.C.L. 
HERBERT S. HUNTER, B.C.L. 



I 



oiartw, ^ornmisatotter^ ^onwpnare, &c. 

^•JJ^RRI^GEvLICE^SESvI^aED:^ 

No. 110 ST. JAMES STREET. 



aw Bnalticllc^ 



<3T 

IMPORTER AND BINDER, 

71 ST, JAMES ST,, "T^ A „T“ d MONTREAL 



J 0 HH HEHDERSOH & CO. 




283 NOTRE DAME ST. 




Extra Quality Goods at Lowest Cash Prices. 

Tlio “ Mc&IXjXj ” Ribbon for sale. 



-Mk-WM. HILL*** 






Gss IROOTvTS -A.T zr3 

No. 1323 St, Catherine Street, 
St. Lawrence Hall, St. James St., 

— AND — 

Exchange Hotel, Point St. Charles. 

^having Tickets at Reduced Rates, good at any of above places. 



WM. FARQUHARSON, 

W.O'ilo'V, 

c-r.cv'Np a/-- < 7 

V CU 

INTO- 13 3 ST. PETE H STREET, 

BETWEEN ST. JAMES AND CRAIG STREETS, 

MONTREA __ 

MJLITAalY XJWIFOR.MS Al SFECIiLLTY. 




A FULL STOCK CONSTANTLY ON HAND 



IMPORTED DIRECT 

— FROM THE— 

LEADING MANUFACTURERS of the WORLD. 

<T^ AN INSPECTION INVITED, 

LYMAN SONS & CO. 

384 ST. JPA. TJL STREET . 



SPECIAL TERMS TO STUDENTS. 




VOL. VII.] 



McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, MxYRCH 22nd, 1884. 



[No. 9. 



SEg mihlh ZffilFERlIMI SSZSSSE. 



EDITORIAL COMMITTEE: 

Consulting Editor — E. Lafleur, B.A. 



J. R. Murray, B.A., ’86, Law. 
W. H. Turner, ’84, Arts. 

J. W. Moffat, ’84, Ap. Sc. 

F. McLennan, B.A., ’84, Law. 



H. S. McLennan, ’85, Arts. 
W. W. White, B.A.’86, Med. 
S. Fortier, ’85, Ap. Sc. 
Wyatt G. Johnston, ’84, Med. 



The University Gazette is published fortnightly during the College 
Session. 

Rejected Communications will not be returned, to which rule no 
exception can be made. The name of the writer must always accompany 
a communication. 



EVENING IN SEED-TIME. 

(Translated from Victor Hugo.) 

Peaceful and cool, the twilight grey 
Draws a dim curtain o’er the day, 

While in my cottage-porch I lurk, 

And watch the last lone hour of work. 

The fields around are bathed in dew, 

And, with emotion filled, I view 
An old man, clothed in rags, who throws 
The seed amid the channel’d rows. 

His shadowy form is looming now 
High o’er the furrows of the plough ; 

Each motion of his arm betrays 
A boundless faith in future days. 

He stalks along the ample plain, 

Comes, goes, and flings abroad the grain ; 

Unnoted, through the dreamy haze 
With meditative soul I gaze. 

At last, the vapours of the night 
Dilate to heav’n the old man’s height, 

Till every gesture of his hand 
Seems to my eyes sublimely grand ! 

Geo. Murray. 



(Sdiiorials* 



It is an undoubted fact that politics, as a distinct 
feature of college life, do not exist in Canada. A certain pro- 
portion of students may take more or less interest in the public 
questions of the day, debating societies may wrangle occasionally 
over some unusually prominent political event, but, as a body, 
Canadian Undergraduates exhibit a marked apathy in this 
matter. This is probably due to various causes; mainly our 
non-residential system, which induces a lack of cohesion amongst 
the students, to the facts that the projects over which they are 
most enthusiastic are naturally those of a sporting character, and 
that they seldom combine to promote a literary or intellectual 
work lying outside of the regular college course of study. In 
this way political, as well as social or religious agitations, as far 
as their influence upon the student mind is concerned, are at 
the mercy of circumstances which are seldom favourable to any 
oTeat growth of a decided sentiment in the mass of the Under- 
graduates. At first sight this might seem to favour the formation 
of an individuality of character, but in reality there is found to 
be nothing more than a want of direct interest in public affairs. 
It may be that a great many have decided opinions upon nearly 
all these subjects, but if we admit that the majority of them 
have, the main point remains that their college life has no con- 



nection with such opinions, which are formed from contact with 
other scenes and other people. All this goes to reduce the 
effect of a university life upon a man to a minimum, his capacity 
for study or rank of scholarship alone remaining to bear evidence 
of his university training. It is not difficult to show that a 
young man who confines his attention exclusively to study, 
while at college, and takes no more than a languid interest in 
the topics of the day, is allowing some of the best years of his 
existence to pass away without making up his mind upon mat- 
ters which may materially affect his future welfare. Because, 
the student ought to be in a better position to recognize and 
accept the true, to reject the false, than he will be in later years 
when prejudices have become ingrained, and the effects of 
logical mental training have been weakened. This will espe- 
cially be true of politics, for in no other sphere is a man more 
liable to play the fool. He may not be secure from committing 
folly in this direction because he happened to reflect upon pass- 
ing events while he was at college, but there will undoubtedly 
be a tendency to act more independently, and to avoid blind 
partizanship and bigotry. The suggestion in the Gazette 
last session about university representation in Parliament, should 
have started an agitation which would have brought the ques- 
tion squarely before the public, but how was the pro- 
position received? By the Undergraduates as a matter which 
looked well in print, but was wholly impracticable, and, there- 
fore, not worth serious consideration. By the Graduates (those 
who saw it) as something which did not concern them, for never 
having been accustomed to connect their college with their 
politics, they had learned to think a political career began in- 
variably after graduation. The extension of the franchise may 
cause a change by bringing nearer to young men the privilege 
of having a voice in the choice of parliamentary representatives. 
But unless university students make use of their knowledge of 
political economy by practically applying it, their after contribu- 
tions to legislation are liable to be of an unpractical nature. In 
the universities of the mother countries we are continually re- 
minded that their members are strongly interested in public 
affairs, and the contests for the election of lord rectors and 
similar events are frequently made to partake of a political 
character. The life of any very prominent literary man reveals 
the fact that most of his opinions were modified or confirmed by 
intercourse with his fellows who devoted some of their time to 
politics while at college. This interchange of ideas enabled him 
to separate the “ chaff from the wheat,” and to go out into the 
world possessed of some advantage over the average young man. 
Many of the English statesmen, notably Gladstone, Salisbury, 
and Derby, received their first training in political life in the 
debating societies at Oxford and Cambridge, which are simply 
schools of political thought. How to promote the study of 
politics amongst the ranks of Canadian Undergraduates is another 
thing. If the force of these remarks is admitted, and McGill 
students recognize the fact that they lack a medium for such 
discussion, it is not improbable that some one will suggest a 
means for attaining the desired end. 



2 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1884 . 



A Correspondent writes to the ’ Varsity proposing an inter- 
nniversity cricket match, Toronto vs. McGill. He ventures to 
say that two or three men could be found here who could hold 
a bat, and then he thinks they (the Toronto men) could educate 
us up to the game. We, too, venture to imagine that one or 
two could be found at McGill capable of holding a cricket bat, 
in fact, it occurs to us at the present moment, that one of the 
best players in Canada happens to be a McGill man, but, never- 
theless, we cannot hold out the slightest hope to our Toronto 
friends that a cricket club will ever be established here, while 
the college session remains as it is at present. We could not 
commence to play in Montreal until the middle of May, by 
which time most of the Undergraduates have left for the 
country, and on the opening of college in September football 
practice immediately begins. As a cricket match is not pos- 
sible, we might have the next best thing, an inter-university 
lawn tennis tournament. This, we believe, would be quite 
practicable. 

The present issue of the Gazette "was not published at the 
usual time as we waited for some days in order to be able to 
give our readers the results of the recent law examinations in 
a complete form. 

(SonfributioniS. 

The Morality of Shakespeare. 

[Portions of a paper read before the Shakespeare Club of Montreal, 
February 4th, 1884.] 

The second species of dramatic writing in which the morality 
of Shakespeare cannot exist, is based on intrigue. Not that in- 
trigue is not to be found in Shakespeare, but, strange as the 
expression seems, it is intrigue qualified by morality ; in other 
words, the intrigue turns on the intriguer and avenges itself. 
Deliberate and uniform pruriency was, with Shakespeare the 
dramatist, a vile thing. No man whose acquaintance with 
him extends beyond mere hearsay and illiterate tradi- 
tion, can, if he possesses sane and ripe judgment, hesitate to 
acknowledge that the sum-total of his influence tends 
overwhelmingly to righteousness. If we compare Shakespeare 
with the drama of a later period when French and Spanish lit- 
erature influenced our own so strongly and widely that the in- 
sular note of Saxon purpose towards higher things was drowned 
in universal, that is, dramatically universal, airs of no doubtful 
character, the sturdy soundness of the Elizabethan comes out 
clear by contrast. He, at any rate, does not make success in 
immorality the goal of any of his plays. He does not dally 
with, and glorify rottenness to call forth the applause of the 
groundlings, though even in his day, certainly in the day of 
Charles II., such treatment would not have proved caviare to 
the general. It must not be supposed that the Elizabethan 
people were embodiments of virtue ; indeed, a perusal of the 
non-dramatic literature that was written during Shakespeare’s 
life-time, soon reveals the depravity of the lowest classes. Beg- 
gars, knaves, thieves, and profligates — foul ulcers on the body 
of the state — formed a large portion of the community. Shake- 
speare’s first theatre, the Blackfriars, was situated almost within 
a stone’s throw of those low haunts in Whitefriars, which gave 
that district, better known to many as Alsatia, an evil notoriety 
during the Elizabethan-Stuart period ; his second, the old 
Globe, lay in the immediate neighbourhood of a district of de- 
bauchery. The great Scotch novelist has given us a glimpse 
of Alsatia, but those who wish to realize the condition of the 
metropolis as Shakespeare knew it, have to turn to specific 
Elizabethan comedy, and to the bitter lamentations of young 
contemporary Puritanism. Yet the little dark spot must not 
blind our sight to the grand and noble outlines of the general 
picture, nor must it make us forget that the literary strength 
and magnificence of the Elizabethan age lack a parallel. 



And Shakespeare holds up a mirror to the worse features 
of social life, but in extremely moderate measure. He holds it 
up, moreover, to condemn, on the whole, what he saw reflected 
there. He does not play tricks with humanity— his knowledge 
of the better parts of men, and his profound belief in the pos- 
sibilities of the race prevented him from doing that nor had. 
he any real sympathy with those who were playing dangerous 
tricks with themselves. How far he was tempted or betrayed, 
we may conjecture to weariness, but we can never certainly 
know. We have his works, and his works are the man. And 
so, if we turn to such plays as The Merry Wives of Wind- 
sor, Measure for Measure — a significant title — and Cym- 
beline, we shall find that Shakespeare is uniformly true to 
himself. The catastrophe is, in every case, a pointed protest 
against wickedness. For the gross compound, Falstaff, meets 
his deserts at the conclusion of the Merry Wives. Sir 
Hugh Evans and the fairy band enter, and Falstaff, terrified 
out of his wits, is burnt by their tapers’ ends until he roars 
again, to say nothing of his being pinched black and blue. 
“ I do perceive that I am an ass exactly, and an ass being ig- 
norant, u Ignorance itself is a plummet o’er me ; use me as you 
will.” It was ignorance of one phase of the morality that 
Shakespeare teaches that had brought about so emphatic a 
lesson. In the Merry Wives, then, mundane perils of a ludicrous 
sort, though they might in an instant have become very far 
from ludicrous, lead to an ending that the dramatist sets forth 
with earnest purpose. The victim is put in a fair way to begin 
mundane right-doing, or if he is not, Shakespeare can do no 
more for him, and so the play naturally ends — and virtuously. 

Again, to take up just one point of many, in Measure 
for Measure. Vainly does Claudio draw with despairing 
hand a vivid picture of death’s horrors — a Dante’s deepest 
Hell of ice, a part of them — and beg his sister to save him 
by ruining herself. If that is the condition of salvation, 
Claudio must die — die without a plea from Shakespeare. 
He is saved in a manner that may offend purism, but he is saved 
righteously. Nor, on the other hand, must we regard Isabella, 
the sister, as any abstraction of righteousness. The brother 
prayed to flesh and blood, and flesh and blood possessed a purity 
of adamantine firmness. Isabella was a woman, nothing more, 
nothing less, and that with Shakespeare meant a great deal. 
He is not going to leave her immured within convent walls, 
even though her spiritual nature called at one time for more 
strict conventual restraint in order that flesh and blood might 
be thrust down into complete subjection. He will bring her 
out into the broad and kindly light of fact, or rather makes her 
bring herself out; for with fact, with the world, he and his peo- 
ple are essentially concerned. The world lay before them as it 
had not lain during medievalism, and the idea that man ought 
to make the best of it, and that one of the best things man 
could do was to make something good of it is reflected every- 
where in Elizabethan literature. And so Isabella abandons con- 
ventual unrealities and becomes the Duchess of that very city 
where a looker-on could see 

“ Corruption boil and bubble, 

Till it o’er-run the stew.” 

And she had a chance of showing her purer nature there. 

Or if we turn to yet another play in which intrigues seems to be 
a central thought — I mean Cymbeline — how grandly strong are 
Shakespeare’s strokes for morality! The actual intriguer whose 
voice was that of a Briton but whose brain, and whose hands 
were those of an Italian — 

“ Mine Italian brain 
’Gan in your duller Britain operate 
Most vilely” — 

is last seen on his knees beseeching to be killed. As with 
Iachimo, so with Posthumus, the husband who connived at the 
intrigue : — 

“ O, give me cord, or knife, or poison, 

Some upright justicer ! Thou, king, send out 

For torturers ingenious ; it is I 

That all the abhorred things o’ the earth amend, 

By being worse than they. I am Posthumus, 

That killed thy daughter : - villain- like I lie ; 



1884.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



3 



That caused a lesser villain than myself, 

A sacreligious thief, to do’t the temple 
Of virtue was she ; yea, and she herself. 

Spit, and throw stones, cast mire upon me ; set 
The dogs o’ the streets to bay me ; every villain 
Be call’d Posthumus Leonatus ; and 
Be villany less than ’twas! O, Imogen, 

My queen, my life, my wife! O, Imogen, 

Imogen, Imogen!” 

4t It is not with silent forgiveness that Imogen receives back her 
husband ; there are words of quick and exquisite mockery of 
joy. Posthumus had struck her to the ground, in her disguise 
•as Lucius' page, because she had seemed to make light of his 
love and of his anguish. Imogen, with one playful reproach 
for this last error of her husband, as if that were all she had 
suffered at his hands, and a happy mocking challenge to him to 
be cruel again, has her arms round his neck, making the union 
of wife and husband perfect in a moment, forestalling all ex- 
planation, rendering forever needless the painful utterance of 
penitential sorrow.” — (Dowden.) The deepest note of Cymbe- 
line has been sounded ; what follows is merely adjustment. 

Thus far we have used Shakespeare, and, I think, fairly used 
him, to show two differences between his work and other work 
of like form. We have separated him, firstly, from those who 
enforce morality on the earth by holding up other-world tor- 
tures that await the immoral ; and, secondly, from those who 
neglect mundane peril as the result of immorality, by proclaim- 
ing either that there is no peril at all — a statement to which 
every-day experience gives the lie — that the venture is worth 
the peril, which most people who use their eyes and their brains 
know to be equally false. And having thus far attempted to 
show what Shakespeare is not, let us approach him more on the 
positive side and see the specific and more minute differences 
which distinguish two or three of his plays — and, first, the 
first play of which he appears to have written the whole. 
Love's Labour's Lost is mere whipped syllabub, compared to 
Shakespeare's middle and later work. And yet the sound pur- 
pose, the firm morality of the piece, Tuns along its surface 
throughout, there being not much depth into which it can play 
down. What is that purpose ? Stated in the most compre- 
hensive manner it is this : That secluded worlds of man's 

creation, apart from the larger world in which his true sphere 
lies — true, because the human microcosm has parts adjusted to and 
only adjustable by, experience along the whole macrocosmic line 
— the purpose, I repeat, is to show that such secluded worlds 
are unnatural, and, therefore, unreal, and, therefore, false, and, 
therefore, doomed to failure ; in this instance at the first touch 
of healthy reality. Away with feasting, sleep, and life in any 
other sphere except that which belongs to men exclusively, 
says King Ferdinand ; swear to it, Lords, all three ! And 
with a protest from one of the three, who demurs to the con- 
ditions, on the ground of common-sense, and with a hint that 
mutual effort will fail, the existence in the half-world, the 
maimed world, is commenced. Love's Labour’s Lost, in spite 
of its avalanche of bad wit and its Euphuistic subtlety, is the 
fore-runner and the serious opposite of Tennyson's Princess, 
where the half-world of woman is brought to naught by an 
infant (Mr. S. E. Dawson's interesting Study gives due weight 
to this feature), just as Navarre's academe is brought to naught 
by a Princess of France and her ladies-in-waiting. At the out- 
set of his career as a dramatist, when his mind was in the some- 
what frothy state of youth, Shakespeare could deal with an 
important problem, even though he clothed it in the lightest 
possible dress. The signs of the 'prentice hand are everywhere 
visible in Love's Labour’s Lost, but so is the sign on which this 
paper is written. Of course there is no sublimity in this play 
— the nature of things does not render that possible — there is 
no terror, no ^Eschylean striking down into the roots of exist- 
ence, no antiphon of Nature in her most terrible of moods, as 
in Lear, or as in Tennyson's sharp, sympathetic Man-and-Nature 
touch at the beginning of Vivien, “ A storm was coming, but 
the winds were still.” Yet there is complexity of some moment, 
and a great deal more than meets the eye at first glance. 

Chas. E. Moyse. 

(To be continued.) 



Greek Letter Societies. 

A great deal of interest appears to be taken in the affairs of 
the Greek Letter Society recently discovered in McGill, and, 
though numerous wild and contradictory rumors concerning it are 
floating about upon the sea of college gossip, yet, strange to say 
very few appear to have any idea whatever of the actual nature 
of such societies, and a few words about them as they exist in the 
States will not be out of place. These Greek Letter Societies 
or Fraternities, though a novelty in Canada, have existed for 
over a hundred years in the States, and their members are 
known there by the generic name of “ Greeks.” 

Up to the year 1825 these societies, (one of the eldest and 
best known of which, the Phi Beta Kappa, still exists nom- 
inally at Harvard), were of a purely literary nature, and though 
they formed branches in other universities, still they were so 
stiff and formal that they were merely patronized for want of 
anything better. 

In 1825 the first Greek Letter Fraternity proper, the Kappa 
Alpha, was founded at Union College, and from this time for- 
ward the societies have been first of all social, and their literary 
character has been a secondary consideration. These social clubs 
became very popular, and began to establish branches, or chapters 
as they are called at other colleges, finally supplanting entirely the 
old literary societies. The feeling against them was, at first, 
very bitter, the opposition being from their fellow-students 
technically called neutrals, from the old literary societies, and 
from the college authorities, and vigorous efforts were made to 
“ Boycott ” both the societies and their members. These char- 
itable designs were not, however, successful, and the societies 
continued to flourish and increase until the civil war, which 
checked the system everywhere, and utterly destroyed several 
colleges and fraternities in the South. Since the war they 
have recommenced more vigorously than ever, and have been 
especially prosperous in the Western States. 

The Fraternities are either general (having chapters in several 
colleges), or local (confined to one college). The former are the 
most important, and, as a rule, confine their chapters to the 
largest and most important colleges in America, being careful 
to make sure of the quality of a college before allowing a 
chapter to be established there. As we have hinted above, the 
objects are social, the advantage of belonging to a large Frater- 
nity being that of an introduction to its alumni who, perhaps, 
are to be found in every large town in the United States. 

At the college the societies fill the same place as the German 
Corps , barring the drinking and duelling, and are intended to 
develop the social qualities of their members. The fear on the 
part of the non-society men that these societies have as their 
object the running of petty college politics does not seem to 
have a very logical basis, (at least as regards general fraternities, 
though it might have with the local ones), for these men having 
a wider knowledge of college life, and having wider sympathies 
through their intimacy with men in other colleges, would be the 
very ones to see the folly and narrow-mindedness of this pro- 
ceeding. A fear on the part of the authorities of the danger- 
ous tendencies of such societies merely shows that those author- 
ities are conscious ot having admitted into their colleges children 
who should have been kept at school, and the fault is their own 
by lowering the standard and admitting such persons. Socially, 
it would appear as if no one had any right to object to his 
neighbor belonging to such a society any more than to object to 
his religion or any other private matter. Since the society 
cannot be aggressive, provided its members don't make them- 
selves personally obnoxious to their fellow-students, its existence 
or membership would appear to have little to concern those 
who do not belong. The fact that these are called secret socie- 
ties has always furnished a strong argument against them, but 
really their secrecy is merely nominal, and not intended as a cloak 
for their imputed misdeeds. It appears to arise from their consid- 
ering that tlieir society affairs do not concern other people, and 
considering that they would be looked upon as conceited and self- 
important if they flaunted their “Greek” proclivities before 
the eyes of their fellow-students. 

In the absence of positive evidence they can only be known 
by their fruits, and considering that there are in America nearly 



4 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1884. 



50 general Fraternities, comprising about 750 chapters, and having 
a total membership of over 70,000, it must be acknowledged 
that they appear to supply some want in American college life and 
their objects must be worthy ones when we find numbers of 
such men as J ames Russell Lowell, President Arthur, President 
Elliot of Harvard, Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes and Dr. Wm. 
Pepper of the University of Pennsylvania, proud of having 
belonged to these societies. 

No one would attempt to prove that society life is college 
life or can replace it, or exist apart from it. It is, on the con- 
trary, merely one of the organs in the economy, and its function 
does not conflict with the enjoyment of life at college, but tends, 
together with college sports, dinners, songs, &c., to vary the 
monotony, and make it less like a mere weary round of lectures 
and examinations. After all, it is chacan cl son gout , for we 
find that while one man prides himself upon being a “ Greek ” 
another equally plumes himself upon not being a “ Greek 
each one thinking all the better of himself therefor ; and so 
honours are easy, every one is satisfied, and the world wags on. 

Alf. Omega. 



George Eliot’s Novels. 



(A Paper read before the University Literary Society, 7th March, 1884.) 

So many sketches, biographical, critical and otherwise, ap- 
peared in our periodical literature immediately after the death 
of this gifted authoress, and so much is still being written 
about her, that it seems rash to attempt to add anything to 
what has already been advanced in connection with her life and 
writings. My excuse, however, for jotting down these cursory 
notes upon a subject which has already been treated of by the 
great writers, is to be found in the pleasure which we feel in 
giving our individual impressions of something which deeply 
interests us. Perhaps, too, it may not be altogether useless for 
humble readers to compare their opinions of favourite authors, 
and to state what points most strike them as notable or charac- 
teristic. 

It is a commonplace fact that how numerous soever an 
author’s writings may be, it is generally found that there are 
present characteristic features which enable the reader to recog- 
nize the hand that wrote, or, at all events, in passing from one 
work to another, to determine the fundamental similarity of 
thought pervading each. This is, of course, more strikingly 
exhibited in some writers than in others, and to say that a cer- 
tain sameness pervades the works of any artist, it must be 
remembered, is not necessarily by so much to depreciate their 
worth. If the writer’s character, as in George Eliot’s case be 
of a strong individual cast, if there be in addition a unity of 
purpose, and a stable well-determined ideal, then, throughout all 
the varied expositions of men and things, the underflowum 
sameness which you will be able to detect, will be but the rea* 
sonable expression of the individuality. For it would seem 
that even in simple descriptions of places or things our pre- 
dilections and aversions help to stamp the pictures with reflec- 
lion 8 of our own nature. In no kind of writing is more scope 
afforded the artist for diversifying his productions than in novel 
writing, while at the same time, there is, perhaps, no part of 
literature in which the fact of which I have just spoken is 
oftener exemplified. One can hardly help being struck with 
this feature of homogeneity, if I may use the expression in such 
a connection, in reading through George Eliot’s novels. 

One of the first things which strikes one as especially attract- 
ive, is the love which is evinced by George Eliot for depicting 
the simple country life of English peasantry; and nothing is 
more charmingly interesting than the romantic incidents and 
remarkable developments of character among the poorer 
classes, which are drawn by her in such true and pleasiim 
colours. Except in Romola, she went back into no 1 remote 
past and sought no far land for the inspiration of her stories 
And in making common country folk speak to us, she makes 
them speak in their own language. Her English dialects are 
pure and simple— m fact, her language is classic throughout 
It may be mentioned that her father was a land agent, but had 
begun life as a carpenter and joiner, and is believed to have 



been the prototype of Caleb Garth. This fact may have had 
some slight influence in determining the authoress's choice of 
characters for her books. 

Again, no one can but admire the deep sympathy which the 
writer always feels with those who are in need of pity, or be 
pleased at her acquaintance with and appreciation of the strug- 
gling everyday life of the poor and halting. As she herself 
says in Scenes of Clerical Life , “ my only merit must lie in the 
truth with whfch I represent to you the humble experience of 
ordinary fellow mortals. I wish to stir your sympathy with 
commonplace troubles — to win your tears for real sorrow ; 
sorrow such as may live next door to you — such as walks 
neither in rags nor in velvet, but in very ordinary decent 
apparel.” A recent writer truly remarks that “ generally speak- 
ing, her novels all treat of the influence of adverse circum- 
stances on the inner life of the actors. It is essentially the 
spiritual life of her heroes and heroines which interests the 
writer.” Such a style of novel, no doubt, does not meet the 
fancy of all readers, a fact which the author seems to 
have been well aware of. “ ‘An utterly uninteresting character!* 

I think I hear a lady reader exclaim. Mrs. Farthingale, for 
example, who prefers the ideal in fiction ; to whom tragedy 
means ermine tippets, adultery, and murder ; and comedy, the 
adventures of some personage who is quite a ‘character.'” We fear 
that there are a good many Mrs. Farthingales and, perhaps, 
Mr. Farthingales, as well. 

Then, too, her fondness for the country gives to many of her 
stories a freshness all their own ; she leads her readers through 
pleasant places, and prepares for the lover of nature a repast 
amid trees and lanes, grassy planes and sweet-smelling flowers. 
She has the rare knack of describing without becoming tiresome. 

It is difficult to help noticing how frequently in her stories, 
George Eliot gives us her thoughts upon the English clergy, in- 
deed, there is hardly a story in which she does not, by some 
means or other, introduce a clergyman. Not only in her 
Scenes of Clerical Life , but in most of her other works she lets 
her readers see her preference for the practically Christian par- 
sons, even though their evangelicism be at times apparently de- 
ficient. She, sometimes, even seems to go out of her way in 
order to show her admiration for the men who are not merely 
content with doctrine, but are careful to possess themselves of 
a love for humanity. She lashes with remarkable power the 
canting hypocrite, and in a quiet, generous way, satirizes the 
faults of all, from high churchman to dissenter. She was her- 
self in early life a devout evangelical, but her views gradually 
changed till she became a professed follower of Comte. Her 
descriptions of clerical life in England of fifty or sixty years 
ago, are, indeed, full of information as they are most interest- 
ing, and present, on the whole, a vivid picture of the actual 
character of this important class at that epoch ; although, we 
have lately seen it maintained, with, perhaps, a good deal of 
truth, that she was rather unfair in dealing with the established 
dergy. But all her clergymen were not like Mr. Gascoigne. 

In recalling the story of Adam Bede, you must dwell on the 
life of the Rev. Mr. Irwin, while the benevolence of Mr. Kenn 
must ever be associated in one's mind with Maggie Tulliver’s 
sad career. Mr. Amos Barton and Mr. Cleves form a strong 
contrast in Clerical Life , and Mr. Gilfil is a type in himself. 

“ ‘\\ e ve had a very good sermon this morning/ was the fre- 
quent remark, after hearing one of the old yellow series, heard 
■\\ ith all the more satisfaction because it had been heard for the 
twentieth time ; for to minds on the Shepperton level it is rep- 
etition, not novelty, that produces the strongest effect, and 
phrases, like tunes, are a long time making themselves at home 
in the brain. Mr. Gilfil s sermons, as you may imagine, were not of 
a highly doctrinal, still less of a polemical cast. They perhaps did 
not search the conscience very powerfully ; for you remember 
that to Mrs. Patten, who had listened to them thirty years, the 
announcement that she was a sinner appeared an uncivil heresy; 
but, on the other hand, they made no unreasonable demand on 
the Shepperton intellect — amounting, indeed, to little more 
than an expansion of the concise thesis, “ that those who do- 
wrong will find it the w r orse for them, and those w 7 ho do w r ell 
w r ill find it the better for them ; the nature of wrong-doing 



1884.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



5 



being exposed in special sermons against lying, back-biting, 
anger, slothfulness, and the like ; and well-doing being inter- 
preted as honesty, truthfulness, charity, industry, and other 
common virtues, lying quite on the surface of life, and having 
very little to do with deep spiritual doctrine.” Then there was 
the Rev. John Lingon — 

“ A jolly parson of the good old stock, 

By birth a gentleman, yet homely too, 

Suiting his phrase to Hodge and Margery 
Whom he once christened, and has married since, 

A little lax in doctrine and in life, 

Not thinking God was captious in such things 
As what a man might drink on holidays, 

But holding true religion was to do 

As you’d be done by — which could never mean 

That he should preach three sermons in a week.” 

The names of many others will occur to the reader such as 
Mr. Farebrotlier, Mr. Cadwallader, Mr. Tyke, Mr. Tryan, Mr. 
Crewe, and so on. In no case, however, does George Eliot 
Mlow herself to judge too harshly of the lives of these men, but 
true to her character she seeks to appreciate the difficulties of 
their position and gives them credit for their conscientious 
-efforts whether well directed or not. “It is apt to be so in this 
life, I think,” to quote her own words, “while we are coldly 
•discussing a man’s career, sneering at his mistakes, blaming his 
Tashness, and labelling his opinions — ‘ Evangelical and narrow,’ 
•or ‘ Latitudinarian and Pantheistic,’ or ‘Anglican and supercil- 
ious ’ — that man, in his solitude, is perhaps shedding hot tears 
because his sacrifice is a hard one, because strength and patience 
are failing him to speak the difficult word, and do the difficult 
deed.” With such a sympathetic understanding her criticism 
could not be harsh. 

But talking of Mr. Gilfil reminds us how fond he was of 
children and how he loved to chat with them, and make their 
little hearts glad with sugar plums and other goodies out of his 
wonderful pocket. The children in George Eliot’s novels form 
a subject of study in themselves. The chief points about them 
are their perfect naturalness, their influence for good, and the 
unobtrusive way in which they are introduced. The authoress 
portrays no little cherubs too good for this poor earth of ours, 
and in not doing so she is, of course, only conforming to her 
general character as a writer. But notwithstanding that her 
children are everyday human children, such as we ourselves 
must have come across, yet their heaven-born mission is contin- 
ually manifested, their benign power is ever and anon referred 
to. Moreover, except in the Mill on the Floss, her children 
are not brought very prominently forward, while at the same 
time they are always found to come in naturally, and they are 
conveniently made to retire before they have become tiresome. 
Charity, we know, covereth a multitude of sins, and no small 
sign of this charity is the love of children. To judge “from her 
writings, George Eliot must have loved children fondly, and she 
not only loved them but understood them, and understood how 
to portray them. 

There is a certain type of character which our authoress is 
very fond of painting — that type of which Adam Bede and 
Tom Tulliver are examples. Of course there is a vast difference 
between Tom Tulliver and Adam Bede, and yet they resemble 
each other as much, perhaps, as two characters drawn by the 
same hand could be expected to do. They had both indomit- 
able wills ; they both devoted themselves with all their energy 
to do what they considered their work here, not setting much 
store by doctrinal teaching, but rather looking to works. That 
large-boned fellow Adam expresses his opinion that “ good car- 
pentry is God’s will ” and “ scamped work of any sort is a moral 
abomination.” They had, too, a sufficient consciousness, and 
this is the less admirable side of their nature, that whatever 
course they pursued was the right one, nor were they very 
patient of the insufficiency of others— in a word, there was 
something of the Pharisee in both of them. But it seems 
rather unfair to class Adam Bede with Tom Tulliver after all. 
There was a great difference botween these two sturdy men. 
Tom was a thoroughly obstinate, cold, unlikeable fellow, while 
Adam was more sympathetic and kindly ; Tom’s prototype I 
shall not grieve if I never meet ; Adam’s I should respect and 
admire. True, Tom may have misunderstood his sister, and 



indeed, he is supposed to have changed his unrelenting nature 
at the last moment when she came to save him. They were 
not separated in death ; but the change came rather late, which, 
had it come sooner, might have made so many miserable lives 
happy. But events in real life do not always turn out joyously. 
Neither do they in George Eliot’s novels. Apparently the 
author did not believe in dropping the curtain amidst sunshine 
and marriage. Many of her stories leave a rather sad impres- 
sion upon our natures when we have finished them. But this 
is only a part of that character which she faithfully maintained 
of an intensely realistic writer. 

AYe can easily understand, notwithstanding George Eliot’s 
undeniable popularity, that many should feel rather oppressed 
by the conservatism expressed in her great love of old-fashioned 
simplicity, that those who feel themselves fired with the spirit 
of radical reform should feel impatient in reading of emotions 
and predilections of which they have had no experience, and 
which, therefore, they cannot properly understand. This con- 
servatism of hers is amply manifested in her love of the 
picturesqueness which is so apt to disappear before the march 
of modern improvements. There can be no question but that 
we lose heavily in losing picturesqueness, but it is more debat- 
able whether the cause of its disappearance brings us in every 
case incalculable blessings. 

But, after all, the most striking and in truth one of the most 
important characteristics of these novels is the utter absence of 
any immorality, or rather the conspicuous presence of a very 
high moral tone. This fact cannot fail to obtrude itself upon 
the notice of the most careless reader. It is not very difficult 
to discern the leaning which the author’s theological opinions 
took. About the latter we do not imagine all will agree, but 
no one can deny that she preached a sound practical creed, and 
none but fanatics will dislike her for this. It is not our inten- 
tion to speak of her philosophical rank per se. In most of her 
books we only see the practical side of her ethical convictions ; 
she does not trouble her readers much with systems of philo- 
sophy. As a moral teacher she must meet with the unqualified 
approval of almost everyone. Romola is perhaps her nearest 
approach to a philosophical novel. And yet Romola is a simple 
everyday story, simply told. The plain intent of the story is 
to teach a lesson of great practical value with regard to the 
relations of married life. Still its philosophical connection may 
be traced in the lesson afforded by Tito’s fate, the lesson that 
the truest happiness must be found in the abasement of self. 
This is the great truth which we find Romola teaching little 
Lillo in the touching scene with which the story closes. Tito’s 
tragic fate may be traced back to his wish to avoid unpleasant- 
ness to himself. Romola remembering this warns Lillo to 
think of others before his own pleasure. And this, too, was 
the gist of Savonarola’s teaching ; this was the thought which 
inspired Romola with new life and courage when the great 
preacher met her on her first flight from Florence. He made 
her feel for the first time the deep significance of her domestic 
bonds, and he reminded her that the best alleviation she could 
obtain for her own sufferings would be found in striving to alle- 
viate the sufferings of others. Had Romola been a mother as 
well as a wife, she would have felt herself bound to Florence by 
her duty towards her children. She was not a mother, and it 
was more difficult for her on that account to feel that she had 
duties for the sake of which it behoved her to remain and 
endure. The flow of her affectionate impulse had been turned 
back by the heartless conduct of her husband. Then Savonarola 
came and opened a new course for her sympathy, where it could 
flow out in a stream more extended if less intense. The second 
flight from Florence was caused by a revulsion of feeling, the 
result of new trials, rather than any failure in what Savonarola 
had recommended for her. Her wounded affections and strong 
spirit rose and overpowered her whole being when the godfather 
whom she loved was murdered, and her revered guide turned 
out a personal failure. She lost patience, and with her patience 
all faith in human nature. Then finding herself in the presence 
of actual human suffering her sympathetic nature is at once 
called into play, and after time has somewhat healed the great 
deep wounds and her young life has asserted itself, she once 



6 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1884. 



more returns to her place in Florence. Romola’s majesty of 
character is shown forcibly in the fact that she allowed no petty 
jealousies to call her away from her highest duties. We imagine 
that her story has met the case of many a reader, we feel sure 
that it has given courage and hope to many a wife. If this 
were the only good George Eliot’s writings ever did, they have 
done a great deal. But we take it that the other lesson which 
may be derived from the story is this, that there must for true 
happiness between man and wife be a certain sympathy of 
feeling and thought over and above mere love. It affords a 
verification of the statement that 

“ Where friendship is by fate designed 
It forms a likeness in the mind/’ 

In this connection one is reminded of the sensible words of 
Charles Lamb. “What a woman should demand of a man in court- 
ship or after it, is, first — respect for her as she is a woman — and 
next to that— to be respected by him above all other women.” Tito 
can hardly be said to have respected Romola, since he did not 
respect a wish which was sacred with her, the wish of her dead 
father. Many others have given expression to this same truth. 
The younger Dumas says that “ love without esteem cannot 
reach far, nor rise very high ; it is an angel with but one wing.” 
Schiller, too, sounds a warning note in his Song of the Bell : — 

“ See ye, who join in endless union, 

That heart with heart be in communion.” 

George Eliot, herself, seems to have had a horror of the conse- 
quences of a neglect of this warning. “ Hard speech between 
those who have loved,” she writes, “ is hideous in the memory, 
like the sight of greatness and beauty sunk into vice and rags.” 
Love, we admit, can work wonders, but it is too much to ex- 
pect that even it can withstand for years the strain which will 
most assuredly arise from the continual contact of dissonant 
natures. The story teaches us to love wisely. It possesses, in 
addition to its other merits, the charm of a historical novel, 
while it is, perhaps, the most artistic and romantic of all her 
works. 

Middlemarch claims our interest in a special manner, because 
it is supposed to be a picture, more or less indistinct, of the 
author’s own life. As we have mentioned before, her father is 
supposed to have been the prototype of Caleb Garth. Caleb 
seems to us to have had many points of resemblance to Adam 
Bede. The latter believed that “good carpentry is God’s will,” 
and that “scamped work of any sort is a moral abomination.” 
The same feeling possessed Caleb, for we read that “ though he 
never regarded himself as other than an orthodox Christian, 
and would argue on prevenient grace if the subject were pro- 
posed to him, I think his virtual divinities were good practical 
schemes, accurate work, and the faithful completion of under- 
takings ; his prince of darkness was a slack workman.” But 
Caleb Garth had not that iron character and executive power 
which distinguished Adam Bede. The former was an elderly, 
soft-hearted edition of the latter, without his surpassing 
strength of will. The other members of the Garth family, as 
well as the Vincys, are all interesting. Mr. Vincy was a kind- 
hearted old soul with all his faults. “And I should have 
thought, but I may be wrong,” says he, “ that there was no re- 
ligion to hinder a man from believing the best of a young fel- 
low, when you don’t know worse. It seems to me, it would be 
a poor sort of a religion to put a spoke in his wheel by refusing 
to say you don’t believe such harm of him as you’ve got no 
reason to believe.” This same spirit that fired the good-humoured 
mayor of Middlemarch might, with little harm, be inspired 
into the breasts of some of our religious people in the present 
day. We should all remember when we sit down to judge 
others that “ it is but a shallow haste which conclude th insin- 
cerity from what outsiders call inconsistency — putting a dead 
mechanism of ‘ifs’ and ‘therefores’ for the living myriad of 
hidden suckers whereby the belief and the conduct are wrought 
into mutual sustainment.” 

Whereas, most authors end their narratives in the climax of 
marriage, George Eliot makes that event but the starting point in 
the careers of her heroes and heroines. This is, again, but part of 
her character as a realist. Somewhere in Middlemarch she 
says, “ Marriage, which has been the bourne of so many narra- 



tives, is still a great beginning, as it was to Adam and Eve, 
who kept their honeymoon in Eden, but had their first little 
one among the thorns and thistles of the wilderness. It is still 
the beginning of the home epic — the gradual conquest of irreme- 
diable loss of that complete union which makes the advancing 
years a climax, and age the harvest of sweet memories in com- 
mon.” 

The quiet satire in these novels is sometimes very fine, but 
no matter how stinging, is always in good taste. Take, for ex- 
ample, the description of the gossip-mongers in Middlemarch. 
“ In Middlemarch, a wife could not long remain ignorant that 
the town held a bad opinion of her husband. No feminine in- 
timate might carry her friendship so far as to make a plain 
statement to the wife of the unpleasant fact known or believed 
about her husband * but v hen a woman with her thoughts 
much at leisure got them suddenly employed on something 
grievously disadvantageous to her neighbours, various moral im- 
pulses were called into play, which tended to stimulate utter- 
ance. Candour was one. To be candid, in Middlemarch phrase- 
ology, meant to use an early opportunity of letting your friends 
know that you did not take a cheerful view of their capacity, 
their conduct, or their position ; and a robust candour never 
waited to be asked for its opinion. Then, again, there was the love 
of truth — a wide phrase, but meaning, in this relation, a lively 
objection to seeing a wife look happier than her husband’s 
character warranted, or manifest too much satisfaction in her 
lot ; the poor thing should have some hint given her that if she 
knew the truth she would have less complacency in her bonnet, 
and in light dishes for a supper party. Stronger than all, there 
was regard for a friend’s moral improvement, sometimes called 
her soul, which was likely to be benefitted by remarks, tending 
to gloom, uttered with the accompaniment of pensive staring at 
the furniture, and a manner implying that the speaker would 
not tell what was on her mind, from regard to the feelings of 
her hearer. On the whole, one might say that an ardent 
charity was at work setting the virtuous mind to make a neigh- 
bour unhappy for her good.” From almost every page sarcastic 
touches of this kind could be collected. 

In the same novel the author’s great sympathy with those 
who have had high aspirations, but who have turned out fail- 
ures in life, is very marked. The way in which Lydgate’s life 
was marred by his marriage with Rosamond is carefully delin- 
eated, and the steps by which sordid cares supplanted his enthusi- 
asm in scientific research. He slid “into that pleasureless 
yielding to the small solicitations of circumstance, which is a 
commoner history of perdition than any single momentous bar- 
gain.” As to what Lydgate’s feelings were, “only those who 
know the supremacy of the intellectual life — the life which has a 
seed of ennobling thought and purpose within it — can under- 
stand the grief of one who falls from that serene activity into 
the absorbing, soul-wasting struggle with worldly annoyances.” 
But, of course, the central figure in this story is the ideal Doro- 
thea. In the case of Lydgate and Rosamond, the unhappiness 
of the marriage would seem to have arisen from a want of 
community in their intellectual natures ; they lived in totally 
different worlds. But in Casaubon’s case, the cause was more 
or less different. True, Dorothea was a good deal disappointed 
in the value of Mr. Casaubon’s attainments, but the truth is 
that there was no mutual sympathy — there could be none with 
such a disparity of age. One is more likely to be surprised 
that Dorothea ever married this emotionless old bookworm. 
To understand this we have to keep in mind her own emotional 
character and the circumstances under which she grew up. 
Had her impulses been properly guided, or had her opportuni- 
ties for knowing the world been greater, it is probable that she 
would not have been so carried away by the scholarship of Mr. 
Casaubon. Dorothea is, however, at best, but a very visionary 
character. It will be interesting to see, when Mr. Cross’s work 
appears on this side of the Atlantic, how far George Eliot drew 
from her own experience for the numerous examples of conju- 
gal infelicity which we meet with in Middlemarch and her 
other novels. 

Felix Holt is an extremely interesting book, the narrative 
running along in a lively strain from the very beginning to the 



1884.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



7 



end. It is of a much lighter style than the other stories of the 
same group, but there is not the same depth for a thoughtful 
reader. The only remarkable characters in the book are Felix 
himself, and Miss Lyon. Harold Transome is, to our mind, a 
rather superficial personage, whilst Mr. Lyon is a kind of man 
not often met with. The narrative is interesting and even ex- 
citing and the reader is carried swiftly along by it. 

Daniel Deronda exhibits, perhaps, more study than any other 
of George Eliot’s novels, except Romola. Daniel is a majesti- 
cally drawn character, but the author’s idealism and sentimental- 
ism seem to have got the better of her in this case, and, as a 
consequence, Deronda is more decidedly of a fictional stamp 
than is usually the case with her heroes. The boy, Jacob 
Cohen, is inimitable. The end of the story, as usual, is unsat- 
isfactory. One would like to know whether Hans became an 
R. A., Rex Gascoigne, Lord Chancellor, and Gwendolen, a 
woman happy in good works. The hero having been disposed 
of, all the rest is left to the imagination of the reader. 

We shall close by quoting the words of Anthony Trollope, or 
Mrs. Trollope’s husband as he is now generally known, concern- 
ing our author. “ Her imagination/’ he says in his autobiogra- 
phy, “ is, no doubt, strong, but it acts in analyzing rather than 
creating. Everything that comes before her is pulled to pieces 
so that the inside of it shall be seen, and be seen, if possible, 
by her readers as clearly as by herself. This searching analysis 
is carried so far that, in studying her later writings, one feels 
oneself to be in company with some philosopher rather than 
with a novelist.” 

J. Ralph Murray. 



©ollctjc US5orli). 



McGILL. 

The Annual Dinner of the Undergraduates in the Faculty of 
Law will take place in the Richelieu Hotel on Tuesday, 25th 
instant. 

Mr. Peter Redpath has subscribed in the name of the 
library, for the new English dictionary published under the 
auspices of the Philological Society. 

Lacrosse. — All lacrosse players, and those wishing to play, 
are requested to practice with the local clubs during the coming 
summer so as to be in good training on their return to college 
next autumn, when a club is to be organized from which a good 
team must be selected. (By request). 

A Meeting of the Graduates’ Society was held on the evening 
of Saturday, 16th instant, when the election of Representative 
Fellows took place. Mr. W. McLennan, B.C.L., was elected 
Fellow for Law, and Dr. Osier for Medicine. 

The Committee of the Graduates’ Society have appointed a 
committee consisting of Messrs. J. S. McLennan, B. A., E. B. 
Greenshields, B. A., and W. Molson, M. D., to co-operate with 
Messrs. E. Lafleur, B. A., J. R. Murray, B. A., and J. H. Bur- 
land, B. Ap. Sc., in taking measures for the establishment of a 
University Club. A canvass of the Graduates, we believe, will 
be immediately undertaken. 

The Primary Class presented their esteemed confrere , Dr. 
Cook, with a series of beautiful copper medals bearing the face 
of her most gracious majesty, Queen Victoria, stamped in relief, 
together with many other tasteful designs known in the verna- 
cular as heads and tails. They also presented him with the por- 
traits of several deservedly popular bank managers, gracefully 
executed by the British American Bank Note Company. The 
whole was tastefully arranged in a cul de sac (not Douglas’s), 
and an illuminated address was presented. Dr. Cook, evidently 
much touched, arose to reply, and in a voice choked with emo- 
tion assured them that they had at last found the way to his 
fond old heart, and expressed a hope that they would not forget 
it, whereupon Dr. Cook was bounced and the meeting adjourned 
promiscuously. 

The first meeting of the McGill University Song Book Pub- 
lication Committee took place on Friday evening, March 7th. 
The representatives appointed by the different faculties were all 



present, except the representative from Law. The following 
officers were elected : — 

Chairman, Mr. W. Stewart (Arts); Secretary, Mr. C. W. 
Wilson (Med.); Treasurer, Mr. E. P. Mathews (Science) 1 ; the 
other members of the Committee being: Mr. G. H. Dawson 
(Science); Mr. C. H. Livingstone (Arts); Mr. A. W. Campbell 
(Med.); Mr. N. T. Rielle (Law). 

After preliminary business had been gone through, the Com- 
pilation Committee were appointed, viz.: Professors Harrington 
and Moyse, Messrs. Gould, McLennan, Stewart (Arts) ; Wilson 
(Med.); Rielle (Law); Matlieson (Science). 

After further business the meeting adjourned till Wednesday 
afternoon, March 12th, when the second meeting was held to 
discuss the form and size of the proper book, and estimates for 
publishing. This done, the meeting adjourned. The contribu- 
tions are coming in fast, and there seems to be no doubt but 
that the book will be a great success. 

Notice. 

1. The Publication Committee of the McGill University 
Song Book give notice that two prizes of the sum of ten 
dollars and five dollars respectively will be given for the first 
and second best new original McGill College songs, with or 
without chorus. 

2. All communications, with the nom-de-plume of the writer 
attached, are to be sent in to the Secretary of this Committee, 
not later than June 1st, 1884. 

3. Communications are to be accompanied by a sealed en- 
velope, bearing the nom-de-plume , and containing the name and 
address of the writer. 

4. This competition is open only to graduates and under- 
graduates of McGill University. 

5. The Judges will be members of the Competition Com- 
mittee. 

All students are specially requested to send in to the under- 
signed any songs which they would like to see published. 

C. W. Wilson (Med. ’86), 

Secretary. 

University Literary Society. 

On 29th Feb., Mr. C. J. Doherty occupied the chair. The 
question of the public debate was again brought up, when Mr. 
Oughtred, seconded by Mr. Cross, moved that the gentlemen 
appointed to speak be asked to make another report. Mr. P. G. 
McKenzie, seconded by Mr. J. R. Murray, moved in amendment, 
that the resignations of Messrs. Hague and Arthy be accepted. 
Amendment carried. Mr. L. T. Leet gave notice that he would 
move at the next meeting that the society proceed to elect two 
new speakers. Mr. Oughtred gave notice that he would move 
on the same evening, that there be no public debate this year. 
The question for the evening was then taken up. “ Should the 
Women’s Suffrage Clauses in the New Franchise Bill be 
adopted V Messrs. Oughtred and Leet spoke in the affirmative 
and Messrs. A. G. Cross and McKenzie in the negative. After 
an exceedingly poor debate a decision was given for the negative, 
and the meeting adjourned. 

The President, Mr. C. J. Doherty, was to have read an essay 
on the “ Ancient Laws of Ireland” on the 7th inst., but, unfor- 
tunately, through illness he was unable to be present at the 
meeting. Mr. A. McGoun gave a reading, and Mr. J. R. 
Murray read an essay which we publish in full in this number. 
Messrs. Kavanagh, Ritchie, Campbell, McGoun, and R. C. Smith 
made brief comments on the essay and its subject. As Mr. A. G. 
Cross was absent, the motion of which he had given notice fell 
through. The other business, which was to have come before 
the meeting, was postponed on account of a point of order 
raised by one of the members. Mr. McGoun occupied the 
chair. 

On Friday, 14th instant, Mr. C. J. Doherty gave a very in- 
teresting address, full of information, upon the “Ancient Laws 
of Ireland.” There was a fair attendance of members, and an 
exceedingly pleasant evening was passed. Several of the mem- 
bers addressed the meeting after the President had finished. 
The following subject was chosen for debate on Friday, 21st 
instant: “Should the legislature interfere with a view to a 



8 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1884. 



stricter observance of the Sabbath.” Speakers: Messrs. 

McGoun, Oughtred, Ritchie and C. S. Campbell. 

Undergraduates' Literary Society. 

The last meeting for this session was held on the 7th instant. 
This meeting is to be regarded as a red-letter one in the calen- 
dar of the society’s proceedings, for Prof. Moyse, fulfilling a 
promise made when he delivered a lecture before the society 
some time back, quietly dropped in, and, on invitation, pre- 
sided. A humourous paper, entitled: “A Week’s Camping,” 
was read by Mr. Unsworth, and, though scarcely in the attic 
style, was much appreciated by the members present. As some 
of the appointed speakers, forgetting the duty they owed the 
society, did not appear, it was decided that an informal discus- 
sion of the question for the evening should replace the debate. 
So a number of the members proceeded to enlighten the meet- 
ing as to tlieir ideas on the relative merits of science and litera- 
ture as basis of a liberal education. Afterwards Prof. Moyse 
addressed the society and, though it would not be impossible to 
join issue with him on some of the points raised, yet the con- 
clusion to which he came was one in harmony with the convic- 
tion of all whom circumstance, or partiality, has not led to adopt 
extreme views on the subject — the conclusion, namely: that 
while literature should be retained as the basis of a liberal edu- 
cation, science should receive a share of attention. One or two 
of the preceding speakers in the course of their remarks had at- 
tacked the study of words, and this the Professor thought him- 
self called upon to defend. He did so on the ground of the 
importance of an exact use of words, which use could best be 
gained through a study of the etymology and history of words. 
But the exact use of words surely does not imply the use of 
them in their etymological signification, rather their use accord- 
ing to the practice of living masters. A correct and effective 
employment of language is better and more easily acquired by a 
study of the classics than by burrowing in the dust of roots 
and philological surmises, however interesting such burrowing 
may be. 

GENERAL. 

Six colleges, all denominational, are in process of establish- 
ment in Dakota. 

Eighteen is the proper age for young men to enter college, 
according to President Porter, of Y r ale. 

Quiz, Quip, and The Yale Harlequin are among the titles 
proposed for the new illustrated paper at that college. 

Dr. Potter, of Union College, at Schenectady, N.Y., will 
probably accept the presidency of Hobart College on his return 
from Europe. 

The Massachusetts Institute of Technology has now 443 
students in the school of industrial science and 114 in the 
school of mechanical arts and the Lowell school of practical 
design. 

Mr. A. F. Murison, of the Middle Temple, barrister-at-law, 
has been appointed Professor of Roman Law in University 
College, London. Mr. Murison is a graduate of the University 
of Aberdeen. 

Mr. J. Brill, B.A., St. John’s College, Cambridge, was re- 
cently appointed lecturer to assist the Professor of Mathematics 
at University College, Aberystwith. Mr. Brill was fourth 
wrangler in January, 1882, and was one of the selected can- 
didates for the Professorship of Mathematics at the University 
College, Cardiff. 

The February number of the Argosy had an article somewhat 
after the style of Matthew Arnold, in defence of literature and 
the classics. It was well written and expressed sound views as 
far as it went. The Eurhetorian Society of the college has 
formed itself into a parliament. The exchange editor seems to 
be engaged in an unseemly wrangle with the King’s College 
Record . 

Professor Bayley Balfour has been elected to the Sherar- 
dian Chair of Botany in Oxford University. Professor Balfour, 
it will be remembered, took part in the transit expedition to 
Rodriguez, and later conducted a survey of the island of Socotra, 



under direction of the Royal Society. The results of these ex- 
peditions are published in the “ Transactions of the Royal 
Societies of London and Edinburgh.” 

Hereafter only two weeks of vacation will be given to Yale at 
Christmas, the other week being put into the long vacation at 
the close of the college year in summer. Owing to the recent 
rumors that unhealthfulness prevailed in the college the dor- 
mitories have been inspected and also the wells on the promises, 
and the result of this investigation has been that the authorities 
are perfectly satisfied that nothing is to be feared from these 
sources . — U niversity Quarterly. 

The friends of women’s education have made a move forward 
at Oxford, and notice is given of a statute just promulgated by 
which the university examinations for “ Honor Mods.,” and 
those in mathematics, modern history, and natural science will 
be thrown open to women. Hitherto women students at Oxford 
have had a special system of Honor and Pass schools of their 
own, constructed by the delegates of local examinations, and 
assimilated as far as possible to the regular university exami- 
nations. 

The McGill University Gazette complains of the inanition 
and want of interest manifested in their Literary Society. YY r e 
would advise them to make some approximation to parliament- 
ary procedure as has been done with so much success in our 
own Society. The appointment of permanent leaders from each 
year charged with the responsibility of bringing out members 
and providing speakers has worked well with us. The only 
difficulty experienced is in hitting upon a principle of division. 
Most would object to political lines being drawn ; but perhaps, 
as politics are never discussed, that mode of dividing is the best 
that offers. The division made, and leaders from each year be- 
ing chosen, an emulation at once arises which infuses animation 
and earnestness into discussions. — ‘ Varsity . 

The late Professor Sophocles was first “ brought out,” it is 
said, in 1836 by two Y r ale tutors, Messrs. N. P. Seymour and 
S. C. Brace, who had known him at Hartford, where he was 
living in obscurity with the MS. of his Greek grammar packed 
away at the bottom of his trunk. They invited him to come to 
New Haven, and the Yale people at once made him at home, 
giving him the nominal position of assistant to Professor Gibbs, 
the Hebrew scholar, who was then librarian, in order that the 
young Greek might be entitled to a room in the chapel building 
where the library was kept. Soon some of the tutors formed a 
class, to enjoy his reading and exposition of Aristophanes. 
Then a Hartford publisher got his grammar printed at the Cam- 
bridge Press, and at last Professor Felton drew him to Harvard 
and kept him there. 

YVe received lately the December number of the Eysomian 
with a supplement. The latter contains an account of the an- 
nual play, which seems to have been very successful this year. 
Henry IY . was the play chosen, and all the young amateurs ap- 
pear to have acted their parts unusually well. One-lialf of the 
regular paper is taken up with football and athletics in general, 
in which we cannot be expected to be very much interested. 
“A Visit to Southend and Rochester,” “Along the Coast of 
Yorkshire,” “A Visit to Ireland,” are the titles of some of the 
short articles which made up the rest of the number. The 
writer of the last of these closes with this sentence: “Next 
morning the wind being favourable, we set sail home, hav- 
ing seen some of the prettiest places in Ireland, and, therefore, 
in the world, in our four days’ tour.” Marzipan is not far 
wrong. 

Mr. Francis Elgar, naval architect of the city of London, 
who was unanimously elected a short time ago to the chair of 
naval architecture in the University of Glasgow, recently 
endowed by Mr. John Elder, is a Fellow of the late Royal 
School of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, and a 
member of the Council of the Institution of Naval Architects. 
He has had great experience in the design and construction of 
war ships for the British and foreign navies, and also of mer- 
cantile vessels. He investigated the causes of the disasters 
which befell the Daphne and Austral ; and upon his evidence 
the rulings were based at the official inquiries in both cases. 



1884.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



9 



The new professor is the first who lias been appointed to a 
university chair in Great Britain on account of his attainments 
in the science of naval architecture. 

The Rugby Union Football Club has taken time by the fore- 
lock in the matter of the Intercollegiate games. At a recent 
meeting it was decided to favour the project in every way, and 
to endeavour to fix the annual match on a day that would be 
suitable likewise for the sports. The double event ought to be 
of much interest either in Toronto or Montreal, and certainly 
large numbers of undergraduates would take the opportunity of 
visiting the sister University, either as competitors or spectators. 
Our athletes would have some worthy object to train for, and 
their ambitions might rise higher than the Residence cake, if 
this meeting were established. The scheme is, in fact, just the 
one to infuse the necessary energy into an almost effete college 

institution, and we trust that it will be advanced with vigor. 

Varsity . 

Utica, Feb. 16. — The faculty of Hamilton College have sent 
circulars to all the parents of the members of the senior class, 
in regard to the bolt from recitations. The two members who 
were suspended from college belonged to the class of ’84, and 
the whole class numbering forty-nine, resolved to stay away 
until the two men suspended were reinstated. The majority of 
the members went to their homes to-day. The faculty of the 
college held a private meeting this afternoon. President 
Darling said the rebellious spirit of the students must be broken. 
The affair will throw a disgrace over the whole college and 
will reflect badly on the discipline of the institution. ° After 
some deliberation the faculty decided to defer their action until 
next week. It is generally believed that the faculty were too 
harsh in suspending the students, who were expected to be 
back in their places next week . — New York World . 

Trinity college has received all told from the late Colonel 
Northam and his estate nearly $250,000. In the spring of 
1881 Colonel Northam made the handsome gift of $40,000 for 
the erection of the fine central building which connects Seabury 
and Jarvis halls. It has been completed and bears Northam’s 
name. By his will, $50,000 was left for the endowment of a 
professorship, which the trustees have established in the depart- 
ment of history and political science, and $75,000 for the gene- 
ral purposes of the institution, besides $12,000, subject to a life 
interest, which will be an addition to the college library funds. 
By the will of Mrs. Northam the college will get about 
$60,000 more, making in all from this one estate an aggregate 
of about $250,000. An effort now making by the New York 
alumni, and through them the alumni throughout the country, 
is expected to result in the raising of money enough to build a 
fine house for the president of the college and to thoroughly 
equip the institution with apparatus. 

The proceedings at the annual meeting of the Intercollegiate 
Press Association, held at Harvard College, were made public 
some time ago. After some discussion, the following-named 
officers were elected for the coming year : President, Mr. 
Wakeman ; vice-president, Mr. Norton ; the Athenaeum was 
elected secretary. The president, the Acta Columbiana and the 
Brunonian were made the board of reference. There was a 
good deal of discussion about the work and purpose of the 
association, and the result was a resolution to this effect : — 
That the Acta Columbiana should be made a central bureau, 
that every paper in the association should make up and 
send to the bureau each week an epitome of its college news, 
and that the Acta should print and send to all the 
members the news thus gathered. Each paper has a cor- 
responding secretary, who is elected out of its own board, as 
heretofore, and whose business it will be to make up the 
epitome. The Herald-Crimson, being a daily, is excused from 
sending an epitome, as its own printed columns are seasonably 
available at the central bureau. The next meeting will be at 
Providence, and it is hoped the membership will be considerably 
increased in the meantime. 

What the condition of the college would be without a system 
of athletics is a question already partly answered by what has 
been said in meeting the charges against the system. We can 



understand, also, the effect of abolishing the present system by 
calling to mind the disorders reported in colleges in which no 
such system is allowed to exist. The revolts against authority 
and the great disorders between classes now occur with the most 
frequency not at colleges which have the greatest number of 
students and the most extensive athletic organizations, but at 
the colleges in which the students either are not able or are not 
allowed to establish such organizations. The disorders which 
used to occur in New Haven thirty or even twenty-five years 
ago ought to convince any candid man that, however great the 
present evils of college-life are with athletics, the past evils with- 
out athletics were worse. On one occasion in those “ good old 
times,” in consequence of a conflict between students and town 
boys, a cannon was brought before the college buildings to 
demolish them. The writer remembers another occasion when 
there was a collision between students and firemen, and one of 
the firemen was mortally wounded by a pistol-shot. That night 
the dormitories were bolted and barred and the students acted 
like a besieged party, and were making preparations for a pos- 
sible fight the next day. In those same good old times there 
were more frequent disturbances between classes. There were 
snow-ball fights, too, on the campus, to the great destruction of 
window-glass. According to the testimony of men in the col- 
lege in those days, drunkenness was more common. Certainly 
within the last twenty years the college sentiment with regard 
to intoxication has undergone a change for the better. Before 
that period a student given to this vice did not necessarily lose 
caste among his fellows as he does at this day. The pressure 
of college opinion is against dissipation. It is absolutely neces- 
sary for the athletes to abstain from it. Being taught the 
evil effects of excesses upon their strong men, the university is 
not slow to see that intemperance is a wrong and evil for all men. — 
Prof. E. L. Richards, in Popular Science Monthly for March. 

The resolutions lately submitted to the different college 
faculties are in general adverse to professionalism in athletics. 
Harvard has accepted them. Yale, Princeton and Brown have 
not yet been heard from, but it is believed that Princeton will 
follow Harvard’s lead, and that Yale and Brown will not 
accept the proposition. The committee recognize the advantage 
of physical training, and submit that the trainer should be a 
man of character and ability, and should be made dignified by 
the support of the college faculty. The first resolution is that 
“ every director or instructor in physical exercises or athletic 
sports must be appointed by the college authorities, and an- 
nounced as such in the catalogue.” But as athletic sports 
among students should never become a business, and since the 
tendency of a desire to win always results in an increasing 
employment of trainers whose influence is likely to be per- 
nicious, the second resolution provides that “no professional 
athlete, oarsman or ball-player shall be emplo} r ed either for 
instruction or for practice in preparation for any intercollegiate 
contest.” And it is desirable on the whole to continue inter- 
collegiate sports ; but in order to have them more generally 
played in the colleges themselves, and to avoid the loss of time 
caused by too many contests at a distance from home, it is 
resolved, thirdly, that “ no college organization shall row, or 
play base-ball, football, lacrosse or cricket, except with similar 
organizations from their own or similar institutions of learning.” 
Moreover, in order to help obviate the frequent unpleasantnesses 
and disagreements in intercollegiate conventions of under- 
graduates, a faculty advisory committee is provided for in the 
resolution that “ there shall be a standing committee of one 
member from the faculty of each of the colleges adopting these 
regulations, whose duty it shall be to supervise all contests 
in which students of their respective colleges may engage, and 
approve all rules and regulations under which such contests may 
be held.” Again, college men not only frequently give too 
much time to athletic-, and so raise the standard of successful 
candidature for the teams too high, but they sometimes come 
back to one of the schools to help keep the championship for 
their university ; so it is provided, fifth, that “ no student shall 
be allowed to take part in any intercollegiate contest as a 
member of any club, team or crew for more than four years.” 
And, owing to the excitement consequent upon games with 



10 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



[1884. 



professionals and the resulting evils, it is resolved that “all 
intercollegiate games of base-ball, football, lacrosse and cricket 
shall take place upon the home grounds of one or the other of 
the competing colleges.” The seventh resolution provides that 
“ no intercollegiate boat race should be for a longer distance 
than three miles,” and was put in to do away with the strain 
upon the system common in a four-mile race ; it was inserted 
the more readily because races are almost always decided before 
the end of the third mile. Lastly, in order that the different 
colleges may be on an equal footing, it is provided that “ the 
students of colleges in which these resolutions are in force shall 
not be allowed to engage in games or contests with the students 
of colleges in which they are not in force.” — Boston Globe . 

Classical and Modern Instruction. 

To the Editor of The Evening Post : — Sir : As the contest 
over the classical question is still going on in our schools and 
colleges, and especially since Harvard (whatever she may do for 
Greek as an optional study) seems to be on the eve of ceasing 
to require it as a requisite for admission to courses leading to 
the B.A. degree, I trust you will print the subjoined extract 
from a letter received a few days ago from Head Master 
Wilson, of Clifton College, Clifton-Bristol, England. Clifton 
College, as is well-known, is about the best example of a large 
school for boys founded within our own generation, and giving 
both the classical and so-called “ modern ” courses of instruction 
side by side. It is very much like a combination of the 
Prussian Realschule and Gymnasium, but under one head 
master and one Faculty of instruction. The masters are almost 
without exception University men, and several of them teach 
in both “ sides” of the school. These two “sides” are called the 
“ classical ” and the “ modern ” respectively. The classical side 
has its central point of instruction in Latin and Greek, together 
with the usual complement of mathematics and English studies, 
as well as modem languages and elementary science. The 
modern side differs principally in having no Greek and less 
Latin, with a corresponding increase in the lines of mathematics, 
science, and modern languages. The number of masters is in the 
neighborhood of fifty, and the boys number about six hundred, 
nearly all from England and Scotland. Their age is about the 
same as that of boys at the other great English schools or in the 
Prussian Gymnasium. Clifton College, as nearly as it may be 
described in brief fashion, is the most successful recent experi- 
ment in boy’s education, and combines the best part of the 
old Rugby idea again revived, with approved later appliances 
and methods. It was my good fortune to visit it in 1881, and 
it seemed to me the best-proportioned and most symmetrical 
school I have visited. After quoting with approval the opinion 
of the University of Berlin on the Greek question, the head 
master of Clifton says : “ The German ‘opinion’ is precisely 
parallel to our own small local opinion, based on the observation 
of results of education on the ‘ classical ’ and ‘ modern ’ sides of 
this large college. The moderns cannot hold their own ; not in 
mathematics, though they devote more hours than the classical 
side to mathematics, nor in German, though they begin earlier 
and give an equal time ; nor in science. In French and drawing 
they are slightly ahead. And their education lacks unity and 
aim. But the parents will have it. Their foe is Greek. My 
doubt is whether Latin is worth preserving on the modern side. 
It dwindles rapidly. Of course something is due to the inferior 
home culture of boys whose parents choose the modern side ; 
but eliminating as far as may be this cause, there still 
remains a marked inferiority in modern side education.” 
The bearing of this upon the classical question as now agitated 
in -this country is sufficiently clear. But it also bears against the 
folly of abolishing Greek even as preparatory to scientific re- 
scearch, and the scientific university courses, and even more 
strongly against the supreme folly of giving up Greek, the funda- 
mental literary language, as a prerequisite for the B. A. degree, 
the only degree now left to represent literary culture. “ Rabidly 
classical ” men, as the Popular Science Monthly calls them, 
could just as fairly demand that geometry, for instance, should 
be no longer required in the mathematics asked for entrance to 
our scientific schools. Andrew F. West. 

Princeton College, February 28. 



/ 23 efipeen the ^Secfurc^. 

Time is money ; of course it is, or how could you “spend an 
evening.” 

When does a man have to keep his word? When no one 
will take it. 

Conundrum. — W hy is the Science Summer Report not like 
the Derby ? Because the favorite generally wins. 

When Jonah’s fellow-passengers pitched him overboard they 
evidently regarded him as neither prophet nor loss ! 

“ Wake up and pay your lodging, ” said a deacon, as he 
nudged the sleepy stranger with the contribution box. 

Why is a man riding fast up hill like another taking a little 
dog to a young lady ? Because he is taking a gal-a-pup. 

A librarian, arranging his books according to their subject 
matter, put “Irish Bulls” under the head of agricultural. 

“ She stoops to conquer.” Can this refer to the fond mother 
who bends over her wayward boy with a number five slipper ? 

A Boston paper is “ in favor of women voting if they want 
to.” A Western paper “ would like to see the man who could 
make them vote if they didn’t want to.” 

An old lady announced in court that she had no counsel — 
that God was her lawyer. “My dear madam,” replied the 
judge, “ he does not practise in this court.” 

Some one remarked to Plunkett, “ Well, you see ’s pre- 

dictions have come true.” “Indeed !” said Plunkett ; “ I always 
knew he was a bore, but never thought that he was an auger.” 

Professor (looking at his watch) : “ As we have a few min- 
utes, I shall be glad to answer any question that any one may 
wish to ask.” Student : “ What time it it, please ?” — College 
Journal. 

“What can a man do,” asked a green ’un, “when a sheriff 
is coming up to him with a writ in his hand ?” “ Apply the 
remedy,” said another. “Apply the remedy — what remedy?” 
“ Heel-ing remedy.” 

Professor to class in surgery : “ The right leg of the patient, 
as you see, is shorter than the left, in consequence of which he 
limps. Now, what would you do in a case of this kind ?” Bright 
Student : “ Limp, too.” 

A woman is like ivy — the more you are ruined the closer she 
clings to you. A vile old bachelor adds : “ Ivy is like woman, 

the more it clings to you the more you are ruined.” Poor rule 
that won’t work both ways. 

A Frenchman writes in a Paris newspaper that “ a French 
major is a man who has three decorations. The third was given 
him because he had two, the second because he had one, and 
the first because he had none.” 

A correspondent has sent a piece of poetry with these 
words : “ The following lines were written more than fifty 
years ago, by one who has for many years slept in his grave 
merely for his own amusement !” 

Very Serious. — A n M. D. being sent for by a quack, ex- 
pressed his surprise at being called in on an occasion apparently 
trifling. “Not so trifling,” said the quack, “for I have, by 
mistake, swallowed some of my own pills.” 

A rich contractor was holding forth upon the instability of 
the world. “ Can you account for it, sir ?” he asked, turning to 
Foote, the comedian. “ Well, not very clearly,” he responded, 
“ unless we suppose it was built by contract.” 

Student, reading Merchant of Venice : “ And yet a maiden 

hath no tongue but thought.” Prof. : 4 4 What does that mean ?” 
Student : “ I fail to get any meaning whatever. I should think 
it ought to read the other way.” — The Dartmouth. 

A child, when told that God was everywhere, asked : “ In 
this room?” “Yes.” “In the drawers of my desk?” “ Yes 
everywhere — He’s in your pocket now.” “ No, He ain’t 
though.” “ And why not ?” “ Tauth, I ain’t dut no pottet.” 

“ Do you like to go to church ?” said a lady to Mrs. Parting- 
ton. “ Law me, I do,” replied Mrs. P. “Nothing does mo so 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



11 



1884.] 



much good as to get up early on Sunday morning, and go to 
church, and hear a populous minister dispense with the Gospel.” 
In a speech some time ago, Mr. Gladstone, treating of wills, 
used the following circumlocution to express unwillingness to 
think of death: “An effeminate dislike to the contemplation 
of that eventuality in relation to which the execution of wills is 
necessary.” 

“Why, Mr. Jones, are you drunk?” exclaimed Mrs. J., as 
her husband came staggering into the house late at night. 
“ N— no, my dear,” said Jones, “n— not d— drunk, but only 
diz — dizzy f — from looking at the fel — fellers go round on their 
vlocipedes !” 

I WOULD. 

If a certain saucy maiden, 

Whom you worship “ just a few,” 

Should remark, “ The sleighing's splendid,” 

I would go if I were you. 

And if, further, she should mention 
That the stars are set in blue, 

That your bay’s a perfect beauty, • 

I would hint the same thing too. 

If while riding in that cutter, 

With just room enough for two, 

The seat appears to have no back, — 

Ahem ! I would if I were you. 

Should the sleigh bells seem to whisper 
What your heart is whispering too, 

That her lips are very tempting, — 

Then I would if I were you . 

But if, through your cruel boldness, 

A quarrel should ensue, 

And she offers to forgive you — 

Then I would if I were you. 

If the pretty creature loves you 
I tell you what I’d do, 

Get a preacher in the morning ; — 

I would, sure, if I were you. 

Class in Science, Sophomore reciting. Prof. : “ Mr. B. can 
you give an illustration of a vacuum ?” Mr. B., confused raises 
his hand to his head. Inference . — Arcadia Aihenoeum .. 

The Recent Trial ; or, the Law Examinations. 

By Thomas Carr Lisle . (After the Tichborne Trial in the Light Gh'een.) 

The Great Trial is ended ! Yea, my brother, and other things are ended 
of which that is but a type, Looming Portentous ; verily, a sort of fire- 
balloon of paper, or of papers rather ; Roman Law , Legal History , and what 
not. 

Men say “ The results are out at last.” The Results Tout ! my poor 
brothers— nay ; were the Results ever in t Surely there was no Result, 
rather other than that. 

And yet, doth it not mean something, think you, this Trial of Strength, 
its examiners, envelopes with cards enclosed, and legal Inanities ? Says it 
not, “ Is there Knowledge in the land, O Israel ?” “ What is Knowledge ?” 
said jesting Pilate, or, rather, where is it? Cry the question into the bot- 
tomless inane of this our world, and what answer ? Nothing but an inar- 
ticulate response of examination papers, examiners, and such. 

Yea, they mean something, these examiners and papers and envelopes 
and pens and ink and cards. A Pale-faced, Goggle eyed, Unwashed Band 
have said so m-uch, have said so with lifting of hands and Reverence — we 
fear somewhat of the Rotatory Calabash kind. They mean this much, which 
is perhaps, somewhat other than Eocenic Fossilisms would have them 
mean. They mean this much. This University of ours believes no longer 
in Kn owledge, believes rather in a kind of sham Knowledge, a stucco busi- 
ness, much to be lamented ; at least, by all such as hold their soul for a 
purpose other than to save salt to keep them from Rottenness, Stinking 
and utter Unsavouryness. “ They say unto us, make brick, and no straw 
is given unto thy servants.” So might cry our men of law, lacking know- 
ledge to work upon ; but for straw they cry not , thinking to make brick 
without straw ; and they make no brick, rather Falsity, Puffery, and 
Unlaw. 

O, great Examiners ! these matters of thine call with a tolerably audible 
voice of Proclamation, and a universal u oyez ,” and we “poor angels may 
know that it was verily meant in earnest that same Phenomenon, and had 
its reasons for appearing there — in Molson’s Hall — trying to separate the 
wheat from the goats, the chaff from the sheep. . 

And what is the outcome, ask Practical men, of all this ? What is the 
import of the matter to us who are not law students ? Verily, my friends. 
Nothing. The Outcome of eight days’ sittings, gallons of ink, hundreds of 
envelopes and cards, and clackings in the Library is little other than for 
the goats, the Blackness of Darkness ; for those who are not goats. Parch- 
ments, fees and a Rampant Joy, wholly Insuppressible, Irrepressible, and 
Mad. 

After all, are not these examinations Chimoeras generally ? But better 
than Chaos, say the examiners, at least tolerabler, impressibler, bemh- 
center than mere Chaos, articulate or inarticulate. Law Students at least 
have a Meaning , must have a Meaning ; state some L act or Facts, intel- 
ligibly, so that men may say “Thus thinks a Man, whether he think wrong 
or right.” 



And the Late Trial was mad, utterly mad, with no Knowledge of Law, 
hardly even Unlaw in it, but Confusion and Nonsense as of the Pit and 
Abyss of Stupidity. # 

Did the Insanity thereof dawn upon many, think you ? One might have 
hoped so, have hoped that such had been the Outcome which Practical Men 
require. One might have hoped that tne Sense of the World, Judicial and 
Otherwise, would have got itself resuscitated from Asphyxia, or proved for 
ever irresuscitable. But instead, thereof, we have Dinner Subscription- 
list actually now present, and Impending Ominous Convocations, V aledic- 
tories, and the like. 

But, my friends, such things will not lasty at least not longer than 
repentance in a lawyer. It is very notable how these Parchment Kings 
strut along in their gorgeous apparel. Escort it not thou, my brother. Say 
unto it rather, “Loud blaring Nonentity, no force of gowns, spectacles and 
books can make thee an Entity. Thou art a Nonentity and deceptive 
Simulacrum.” . 

We won’t go home till morning ! Dinner ! Toasts ! Brandy ! Hic-ic— 
Kick-up ! 



^Results of (Sbc^mtnafiorta. 



Faculty of Law. 

Medal Competition: — C. A. Duclos, B.A., 618; Alex. Falconer, B.A., 
617. Maximum 700. 

The Dean's Prize: — C. A. Duclos, 98. Maximum 100. 

Thesis Prize: — Alex. Falconer. 

Third Year: — Alex. Falconer, 534; Duclos, 527 ; F. S. Maclennan, 468; 
N. T. Rielle, B. A., 458 ; K. R. McPherson, B. A., and F. McLennan. B. A., 
430; J. H. Rogers, B.A., 437; J. S. Buchan, 436; Cullen, 401 ; Cook, 
B.A., 392 ; Baril, 330. Maximum 600. 

Second Year Struthers, 544; A. W. Smith, B.A., 500; H. Hague, 
B.A., 485; A. G. B. Claxton, 455; G. O’Halloran, B.A , 452; R. A. E. 
Greenshields, B.A., 450; H. J. Duffett, B.A., 422; J. K. Cameron, B.A., 
379 ; Joly, 378. 

First Year:— Brown, 430; J. Ralph Murray, B. A., 429 ; R. J. Elliott, 
425 ; A. Bryson, 370 ; Pollette, 349. Maximum 500. 

J. Mackie passed. 

Faculty of Medicine. 

The following students have passed the final examinations for the degree 
of M.D.C.M. : — Addison, Barrett, Church, Cook, Davies, Duncan, 
Elderkin, Ferguson, Gooding, Graham, Hutchison, C. H. Johnson, Wyatt, 
Johnson, Lander, Mclnerney, McClure, McLean, Merritt, Nelson, 
O’Brien, Porteous, Renner, Ross, Rowell, Ruttan, E. H. Smith, D. Smith, 
H. E. Smyth, Walker. 

In the primary examinations the following forty-five passed : — 

J. H. Armita^e, Newmarket, Ont. ; H. S. Birkett, Hamilton ; D. A. 
Cameron, Stratnroy ; J. L. Clarke, Waterloo, Que ; D. Corsan, Wood- 
stock, Ont.: M.A. Craig, Glen Water, Ont.; W. C. Crockett, B.A., Fred- 
erickton ; W. W. Doherty, Kingston, N. B.; J. L. Duffet, Leeds, Quebec- 
J. Elder, B.A., Huntingdon, Quebec ; T. M. Gairdner, Bayfield, Ontario ; 
J. B. Gibson, Cowansville, Que.; G. J. Gladman, Lindsay, Ont.; J. H. Y. 
Grant, Ottawa ; Smith Guston, London, Ont.; P. H. Hughes, Strathroy ; 
J. A. Kinloch, Montreal; J. M. McKay, River John, N. S. ; E. P. 
McCollum, Duart, Ont.; H. J. McDonald, Alexandria, O.; F. G McGam- 
mon, Prescott ; W. J. McQuaig, Vankleek Hill, Ont.; J. W. McMeekin, 
Chesterfield, Ont.; G. F. Palmer, Ottawa ; A. T Platt, Picton, Ont.; N. 
G. Powne, Nashville, Tenn.; — Pringle, Cornwall. Ont.; A. Raymond, 
Moulinette, Ont.; G. H. Raymond, B.A., Springfield, N. B.; F. D. Rob- 
ertson, Lennoxville, Que.; W. M. L. Rowat, Manotic, Ont.; F. J. Seery, 
Fredericton ; A. J. Schmidt, Faribault, Minn ; W. A. Smith, Montreal • 
A. R. Turnbull, Russell, Ont ; W. W. White, B.A., St. John, N. B.; F.’ 
J. White, Green’s Pond, Nfld.; C. W. Wilson, Cumberland, Ont.; J. F, 
Williams, Barrie, Ont.; D. J. G Wishart, B.A., Madoc, Ont.; A. N. 
Worthington, Sherbroke. 

Of the above seventeen took first class honours and eighteen took second 
class. On the honour list Mr. Smith Guston, of London, Ont., took first 
place, being closely followed by Mr. N. G. Powne, of Nashville, Tenn.; 
Mr. H. S. Birkett, of Hamilton, was third ; J. A. Kinloch, Montreal, 
fourth, and J. Elder, B.A., Huntingdon, fifth. 

The prize for the best examination in botany was taken by Mr. N. G. 
Powne. The herbarium prize was taken by Mr. J. E. Gray, Coldstream" 
Ont. * 

The following did not go up for their full primary list but passed in the 
subjects mentioned : L. H. Carter, Picton, Ont., passed in materia medica, 
physiology and practical anatomy. D. McG. DeCow in materia medica, 
physiology and chemistry. J. E. Gray in materia medica, physiology and 
anatomy. H V. Johnstone in physiology. T. J. Haythorne in materia 
medica and chemistry. R. A Kennedy in materia medica and physiology. 
R. C. Kirkpatrick in materia medica. V. H. Morgan in materia medica", 
physiology and anatomy. E. McKay in materia medica and physiology! 
J. G. Owens in materia medica and chemistry. T. H. Orton in materia 
medica, physiology and anatomy. A. Poole in materia medica, physiology 
and chemistry. L. F. R >ss, B.A., physiology, materia medica and chemis- 
try. G. C. Stephen in materia medica, physiology and chemistry. A. F. 
Schmidt in materia medica, physiology and anatomy. H. P. Wilkins in 
materia medica and chemistry. J. F. Williams in materia medica and 
physiology. G. H. McMillan in physiology and chemistry. W. D H 
Brown, chemisty. K. Cameron, chemistry. E. H. Earl, chemistry." J. 

Graham, chemistry. A. Grant, chemistry. J. Pomeroy, chemistry 

Stewart, chemistry. W. C. Cattenach, practical anatomy. J ’ 

The results in the medal competition have not been announced as we go 
to press, but it is rumoured that the medal in the final year has been 
awarded to Wm. A. Ferguson, B.A., and the Sutherland gold medal to 
John Elder, B.A. 



12 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1884. 




Ladies will do well to examine their Dry Goods Bills for the last few 
months, as we are told that Extravagant Prices have been charged in Mon- 
treal for all kinds of Fingering Wools and Yarns. 



OUR JPRICES 

Our Prices all the Winter have been as follows : Baldwin and Walkers 
and Paton’s best four-ply and five-ply Fingering Wools, $1.25 per pound of 
16 ounces for Blacks, Whites, and all shades of Greys, Drabs and Oxford ; 
and $1.50 per pound of 16 ounces for Bright Colors, such as Reds and Blues. 

S. CARSLEY. 

Our Price for Paton’s Best Wheeling Yarn has been, all the season, 85c 
per pound of 16 ounces, in Black, White, Oxford, and all shades of Browns 
and Greys, and $1.15 per pound for Reds and Blues. 

S. CARSLEY. 



S CARSLEY’S 




BLACK OSTRICH FEATHERS ! 

BLACK OSTRICH FEATHERS ! 

BLACK OSTRICH FEATHERS ! 



Our buyer has secured several lots of remarkably fine Black Ostrich 
Plumes, much below regular prices. 

Ladies will find this a good opportunity of buying a splendid Plume at 
a very moderate cost. 

A large range to select from ; from Two Dollars to Fourteen Dollars. 



S. CARSLEY’S 

H1LLIHSBY 



38/, 389, 391, 393, 395, 39/ and 399 NOIRE DAME STREET, 



j©m wEtE<BWir s 

PHOTOGRAPHS by ELECTRIC LIGHT 



PHOTOGRAPHS MADE EVERY EVENING AT 




251 ST. JAMES STREET. 



NEXT DOOR TO H. MORGAN & CO. 

A LIBERAL DISCOUNT GIVEN TO STUDENTS. 
OPEN EVENING FROM 7 TO 11. 
PLEASE CALL AIVD SEE SPECIMENS. 

P.S. — The only place in the Province where Pictures are taken by Electric 
Light. 

" ASHFORD 9 ®**-. 

Jew jjook and Stationery ||ef 

(one door west of his old stand) 

Medical Books, 

Students’ Note Books, 
Disseetirig Cases arid Scalpels , 

(BY WEISS & SON,) 

CHEAP FOH CASH. 

Books procured to order from England and the United States, 

6781 AND 680 DORCHESTER ST. 

MONTREAL. 



UNIVERSITY OF 

BISHOP'S + COLLEGE 

ot§ MONTREAL 



FACULTY OF MEDICINE 

SESSION OF 1884-85. 



« HE Fourteenth Winter Session of this Faculty will open 
on the first Tuesday in October, 1884. The Faculty of 
Medicine of Bishop’s College bases its claim for public 
)ort upon the thoroughly practical character of its in- 
ction, and the fact that the means at its disposal for this 
x>se are not excelled by any medical school in Canada. 
a ua Diploma is recognized by the Royal College of Physicians, 
Edinburgh ; the Royal College of Surgeons, England ; and the Royal 
College of Physicians, London. Students have the option of attending 
the practice c f either the Montreal General Hospital (200 beds), or of the 
Hotel Dieu H spital (200 beds), both of which institutions have a staff 
who regularly and systematically visit them. At the Montreal General 
Hospital excellent facilities are afforded for the study of Practical Pathology, 
under the direction of the Pathologist of the Hospital. The practice of the 
Montreal Dispensary — where spendid opportunity is afforded to learn Dis- 
pensing — is open to the Students of Bishop’s College. 

The Woman’s Department of the Western Hospital, under the 
supervision of this Faculty, is divided into two departments — Obstetrical 
and Gynecological. The Obstetrical Department is under the control of 
the Professor of Midwifery, and affords to Students a field unequalled in 
the Dominion — in fact this Department has made Bishop’s College the 
Midwifery School of Canada. The Gynecological Department is attended 
by the Professors of Bishop’s College, and is the only Hospital of its kind in 
the Dominion. Opportunity is here afforded to see most of the operations 
in this important Department of Surgery. 

Two Gold Medals (“ The Wood” and the “ Robert Nelson” Gold 
Medals) and the “Dr. David” Scholarship are competed for annually. 

Fees, about the same as at the other Medical Schools in Canada, but a 
Student who pays the cost of the entire course on the commencement of his 
studies is able to effect considerable reduction. 



FACULTY : 



F. W. CAMPBELL, M.A., M.D., L-R.C.P. Lond., Dean, Professor of Principles and 
Practice of Medicine, consulting Physician Montreal Dispensary, Physician to 
Western Hospital. 

J. BAKER EDWARDS, Ph. D., D.C.L., Emeritus Professor of Practical Chemistry. 

R. A. KENNEDY, M.A., M.D., C.M., Professor of Obstetrics and Diseases of Children. 
Consulting Physician Montreal Dispensary, Physician to and Superintendent of the 
Obstetrical Department of the Western HospitaL 

J. PERRIGO, A.M., M.D.. C.M., M.R.C.S. Eng., Professor of Surgery, Physician to and 
Medical Secretary Western HospitaL 

J. B. McCONNELL, M.A., M.D., C.M., Professor of Materia Medica, Physician Western 
Hospital and Montreal Dispensary. 

CASEY A. WOOD, C.M., M.D., Professor of Pathology, Physician Western Hospital. 

GEORGE E. ARMSTRONG, M.D., Professor of Physiology, Physician Western Hospital. 

JAMES C. CAMERON, M.D., C.M., M.R.C.P I., Registrar, Professor of Medical Juris- 
prudence, Physician to Montreal General Hospital and Western Hospital. 

THOMAS SIMPSON, M.D., Professor Hygiene, Physician to Montreal General Hospi- 
taL Consulting Physiciau Western HospitaL 

E. H. TRENHOLME, M.D., C.M., B.C.L., Professor of Gynaecology, Consulting Phy- 
sician Montreal Dispensary, Physician Western HospitaL 

WM. YOUNG, C.M., M.D., Professor of Chemistry. 

J. LESLIE FOLEY, C. M., M.D., L. R.C. P. Lond., Professor of Anatomy, Physician 
Montreal Dispensary. 

H. L. REDDY.. B.A., M. D., L.R.C.S.E., L.R.C. P.L., Professor of Therapeutics. 

A. LAPTHORN SMITH, B.A., M.D., M.R.C.S. Eng., Professor ot Botany, Physician 
Montreal Dispensary. 

LECTURERS IN SPECIAL DEPARTMENTS. 



JOSEPH BEMROSE, F.C.S., Lecturer on Practical Chemistry. 

ALEXANDER PROUDFOOT, M.D., C.M., Lecturer on Disease of the Eye, Ear and 
Throat, Oculist to Montreal Dispensary and Western HospitaL 
D. D. GAHERTY, C.M., M.D., Demonstrator of Anatomy. 

ANTHONY KERRY. C. M., M.D., Curator of Museum. 



For Circulars giving every requisite information apply to the Dean 
or to 

JAMES O. CAMERON, M.D., C.M., MRCPI 



Montreal, December, 1883. 



Registrar 9 Montreal, 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 




PHOTOGR APHER 



141— ST. PETER STREET— 141 



All the latest improvements adopted, including 
the INSTANTANEOUS PROCESS, §c., fyc. 

COMPOSITION GROUPS executed with intelli- 
gent regard to established rules of art 

Cabinet Photographs of HERBERT SPENCER , 
taken on his recent visit to this city, for sale . Price 
50 cents • 

— O.^- TELEPHONE COMMUNICATION ^-O — 



L. ROBINSON, 

LATE OF 

LONDON, ENGLAND, 




HENRY GRANT & SON, 

26 Beaver Hall Terrace. 

Students’ Eye Shades, 

CLINICAL THE2M0METE33, 
MICROSCOPES, 

BAROMETERS, Ac. 

OJPTICIA JYS 9 

WATCH-KAKARS, 

JEWELLERS. 



Fashionable Tailor 

31 BEAVER HALL. 



HEADQUARTERS 




*S-DRYS DALE’S^ 



232 ST. James Street. 



Medical Works, Books used in Art Course, 

Science Text Books, 

The various Theological Text Books • 

Full assortment in stock and suooiied at Rock Bottom Prices, 



STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

SCRIBBLING BOOKS, 8pc-, §*., 

BEST VALUE IN TOWN. 

Stylo graphic Pens, Anti-Stylo Pens and Students’ 
Supplies a Specialty- 

Wo BBYSBALE & CO„ 

23 2 ST. James Street, 

ALSO 

Branch Store: 1423 St. Catherine r 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 





OPTICIAN, 

185 St. James Street, 

MONTIUBAXi. 

Importer and Sinnfactnrer 

OF 

MICROSCOPES, 

SURVEYING, 

MATHEMATICAL 

AMD 

SCIENTIFIC INSTRUMENTS. 



O. HI LX-. 




lO PHILLIPS SQUARE, 



Bookseller and Stationer. 



English and American Periodicals 

A n d Illustrated Works- 
All Kinds of Stationery. 

Cards Engraved — Orders for England, for Town ami Country, or the 
United States, promptly attended to. Postage Stamps. 




J. B. DUROCHER, Proprietor. 

JACQUES CARTIER SQUARE, opp. COURT HOUSE and CITY HULL 

MOJNTTHEAIj. 



The above Hotel is the best in the city for McGill College Dinners. 



WM. HOTMAH & SOU. 



D 



, m 




DU 



to Hid III 



17 and 19 BLEURY STREET, 

MOFTKIAL. 

^WILLIAM SAMUELS 

36 7 Notre Dame Street, 

— IMPORTER OF — 

TBL ATP S 






-V 



From tlx© Best Englisli Malxers, 

— AND — 

Manufactu rer of F INE FURS. 

Highest Award for PINE FURS, Dominion Exhibition, 1880. 
Fourteen First Prizes and Gold Medal, Provincial Exhibition, 1881. 

367 Notre Dame Street, Montreal. 



; < ;h 



w < . 



< vl 



-He pji 

No. 1 BLEURY STREET, 

yVtoNTREAL. 

Special Rates for Students.^ 






Mercfiaut * Taiforst 

SHIRT & COLLAR MANUFACTURERS 

21 BLEURY STREET, 

NEXT DOOR TO NOTMAN’S. 

A SPECIAL XOXSCOXJISrT TO STUDENTS. 

DAWSON BROTHERS. 

BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS, 

HAVE REMOVED TO 

INTO. 2 3 3 ST. JAMES STBEE T. 

SIGN OF THE GOLDEN OWL 

ALL TEXT BOOKS 

IN USE 

IN THE COLLEGES 

OF 




ALL KINDS 

OF 

NOTE BOOKS 

AND 

COLLEGE 



CANADA. REQUISITES. 

SIGN OF ’'HE GOLDEN OWL. 

TsTO. 3 3 3 ST. CT A 3 VL E S STREET, 

NEAR VICTORIA SQUARE. 

DAWSON BROTHERS. 

BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS 



