Vol. XII 



No. 2 








UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, Guerin & Greenshields, 

OCATE S, 

Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, &c,, 

Chambers : Exchange Bank Building, 

1728 NOTRE DAME STREET, - - MONTREAL. 

J. N. Greenshields. Edmond Guerin. R. A, E- Greenshields. 



Antiseptic Materials, Bandages, Etc, 

MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 

W. A. DYER & CO., 
Pharmaceutical & Dispensing Chemists, 



ROBERTSON, FLEET & FALCONER, 

ADVOCATES, 

157 ST. JAMES STREET, 
MONTREAL. 

Atwater & Mackie, 

Advocates, Barristers, Commissioners, fc, 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 St. Janies St., Montreal. 

HlACWIdSTER, HUTCHINSON, WEIR & MCLENNAN, 

ADVOCATES, 

BARRISTERS, SOLICITORS, &c., 
175 St. James St., Montreal, 

DONALD MACMASTER, Q.C. R. s. WEIR, B.C.L. 

M. HUTCHINSON, B.C-L. F. s. MCLENNAN, B.C.L. 

CHAPLEAU, HALL, NtCOLLS & BROWN, 



14 & 16 Phillips Square, Cor St. Catherine St., 

MONTREAL. 

Bandages, Roller, Muslin, 

Bandages, Cotton, 

Bandages. Absorbent, 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze, 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, Assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent, 

Cotton Wool, Borated, 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated, 

Cotton Wool, Sublimated. 

Drainage Tubes, Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent, 

Gauze, Borated, 

Gauze, Carbolized, 

Gauze, Eucalyptol, 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze, Naphthalin, 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill; Inhalers, Celluloid, 

Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached, 

Jute, Absorbent, 

Jute, Carbolized, 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated ; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels ; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes ; 
Sponges, Antiseptic; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain; Sponges, 
Gamgee’s Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies’. 



HEADQUARTERS 

— FOR— 



ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Commissioners, &c 



•9 




147 St. James St., Montreal. 



Hon. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. 
JOHN S. HALL, Jr. 



ARMINE D. NICOLLS. 
ALBERT. J BROWN. 



and College Text Bools ! 

DRYSDALE’S 



CR1JICKSHANK & ELLIOT, 

Advocates, Barristers, etc., 



90 ST. JAMES STREET, CITY. 




PURE CANDY. 

254 St. lames street, and 15 St Lawrence Mail street, MONTREAL 
aid 73 Sparts street, OTTAWA. 



232 ST. TA-IMIIEIS ST 



juebical U'oiiks, books user ijv art course, 

SCI E JVC E TEXT BOOKS, 

THE VARIOUS THEOLOGICAL BOOKS. 

Full Assortment in stool and Supplied at Rocl Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books, Ac., &c. f 

■ . V . BEST VALUE IN TOWN , 

Stylographic Pens, Anti-Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty . 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

233 St. J ames Street, 

ALSO 

Branch Store 1423 St. Catherine St. 



i 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Vol. xii.] McGill college, Montreal, November 3rd, 1888 . [No. 2. 




BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

J. F. Mackie, B.A., B.C.L., President. 
J. A. Elliott, Arts ’90, Vice-President. 
C. A. Barnard, Law ’89, Sec.-Treas. 

C. F. Martin, B.A., Med. ’91. 

C. Peers Davidson, Arts ’90. 

W. Dixon, B.A. 



EDITORS. 

J. A. MacPhail, Arts ’88., Acting Editor -in-Chief . 
Helen R Y. Reid, ’90, Corresponding Ed. for Ladies’ Dept. 



Arthur Weir, B.A. Sc. 

C. L. Wheeler, B. A., Med. ’89. 
R. McDougall, Arts ’89. 



Miss Blanche B. Evans, B.A. 



Francis Tope, B.A., Law ’89. 
M. W. Hopkins, Science ’88. 
C. P. Bissett, ’90. 



The University Gazette is published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which rule 
no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

Published by The Univkrstiy Gazette Co., P. 0. Box 
1290, Montreal, and printed by The Burland Lith. Co., 9 
Bleury Street. 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE. 

Editorials 15-16 

Poetry 16, 18 

Contributions 16-17 

McGill News 18-20 

Societies 20-21 

Sporting 22-24 

Personals 24 

Exchanges 24 

College World 24-25 

Between the Lectures 25-26 

Correspondence 26 



ANNOUNCEMENT. 

The third number of the “ University Gazette” will 
contain Mr. John Reade’s article on the “ Range of 
Greek and Roman Literature.” 



Editorials. 



We take great pleasure in publishing the address 
of Professor Watson, delivered at the meeting on 
University Day of Queen’s College, Kingston. 

Professor Watson is a man well fitted to write upon 
the subject he has chosen, “ The Future of Canadian 
Universities,” and our excuse for publication will be 
found in the title. The address is one which may be 
read with profit by all connected with university life, 
whether they be in authority or under it, or graduates. 



The lesson which he draws from the studious life of 
Dante is one which all students should take to heart. 
Not merely no great poet, but no other great man has 
climbed to fame but by toiling while his companions 
slept. “ If thou wouldst pierce the Infinite,” Professor 
Watson says, using the words of Goethe, “ Press on 
every side into the Finite.” 

That our Canadian universities somewhat disappoint 
Professor Watson is not to be wondered at, and his 
suggestion of post-graduate courses is one which all 
connected with university life, will consider well made. 
A mere training for a degree, even in the best colleges, 
is a minor matter. No one should be satisfied with his 
college training ; and few have been. “ I learnt no- 
thing at college,” says Voltaire, “ but Latin and non- 
sense.” “ I am sorry that I ever was sent to college,” 
says Ealph Bernal Osbourne, the brilliant parliamen- 
tary orator, “ for I learnt nothing there but vices and 
bad habits.” “ It is good to go through college,” says 
Emerson, “ to see how little there is in it and Haz- 
litt, going further, says that “Any man who has passed 
through the regular gradation of a classical education, 
and is not made a fool by it, may consider himself as 
having had a narrow escape.” 

While these men were peculiar men, men whose 
minds had one chief inclination, and were, therefore, 
men for whom it is impossible for a college to adapt 
itself, without, at any rate, sacrificing the good of the 
majority, there is no doubt that they show forth by 
their words a great underlying truth. This truth is that 
universities, even the best of them, are mere training 
schools for students. It is not so much what we have 
learned, as the fact that we have learned how to seek 
knowledge, that makes our university career of use to 
us. 

Our degree, once obtained, is useless parchment if we 
do not go forward with our studies. All of us take a 
post-graduate course, and if in the future we are en- 
abled to do so under the fostering eyes of our Alma 
Mater , so much the better for us. 



SPOETS AT McGILL. 

There is a football club at McGill which manages 
to get tolerably well thrashed whenever it tackles any 
club of first-class standing; a hockey club which 
scarcely meets with the success to which it is entitled 



16 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



by the devotion of its members ; and an annual field 



IN LOVE’S BOWERS. 



meeting where the feats are not of the most heroic 
description. This is the natural outcome of many 
disadvantages under which our students labor, and 
which are absent in other American colleges. In the 
first place, our Arts men are younger than in most 



I am a bee in the bowers of love, 

Buzzing from red rose to lily. 

Since woman is false, why should I not rove ?— 
The love that is constant is silly. 

Who loves only one, 

Of love may taste none ; 
He who will rove 
Is never undone. 



schools, and the older men in Medicine and Science 
have no time to spare to sport. The session here is 
shorter than elsewhere, and the term breaks up before 
the snow is off the ground. Again, there is wanting 
to a great extent that interest in the Alma Mater 



The sparkle that brightens the eye of Cerise, 
The folds of fair Alice's wimple, 

And Lucy's lithe figure, my roving heart please 
As well as Kate's mouth or Belle's dimple. 

Who loves only one, 

Of love may taste none ; 
He who will rove 
Is never undone. 



which only a common residence for the students can 
confer. Furthermore, if there were a residence on 
the college grounds, the proximity of the campus 
would be a constant incentive to exercise thereon. So 



One cheers me when sad with a flash of her eyes, 
One speaks like a learned professor, 

One strengthens my soul, and another but cries 
41 Fie, sir 1" when I wish to caress her. 

Who loves only one, 

Of love may taste none ; 

He who will rove 
Is never undone. 



long as sport in McGill finds its main expression in a 
field meeting, for which there is a desultory prepara- 
tion of a couple of weeks, and in which only our own 
men are allowed to take part, we cannot expect any 
astonishing results. In time, however, as the college 
enlarges, and the long-hoped-for hoarding* house 
makes its appearance, we may hope for a field day 
much more worthy of the name than we have at 
present. 



Who loves only one may win beauty, I know, 
And a soul that is worth his possessing, 

But if she's a blonde, why the brunettes must go, 
If brunette, the blondes miss his caressing. 

Who loves only one, 

Of love may taste none ; 

He who will rove 
Is never undone. 

It gives me no pang that my Alice in pain 
Sees Cerise have a share of my kisses. 

And Lucy may pout, and sweet Kate in disdain 
Turn away when my worship she misses. 

Who loves only one, 

Of love may taste none ; 

He who will rove 
Is never undone. 



MEDICOS AND “ THE GAZETTE.” 

Hitherto the students have not taken that active 
interest in The Gazette, which it is necessary they 
should, in order to make it interesting to the great 
mass of its readers — namely, the students them- 
selves. 

It should be borne in mind that The Gazette is the 
organ of the University; and through its columns all 
discussions touching the interests of the student, or 
the general welfare of the college should take place. 
Seeing, then, that this is its particular function, it 
should receive from the students that support which 
it certainly merits. 

More particularly are these considerations submit- 
ted to the students of Medicine. In the words of Sir 
Wm. Dawson, “the faculty of Medicine has always 
been the strong faculty in McGill ; ” and yet it is a 
noted fact that the students of Medicine furnish no 
more to its support in the way of literary and other 
contributions than even the weakest faculty in the 
University. 

This should not be. There is sufficient talent in 
this faculty to make The Gazette a far more accept- 
able treat, to the medical students at least, than it 
at present appears to be. However, beginning with 
the present issue, it is hoped that some able support 
from the “ strong ” faculty will be given. 



I care not a whit ; there are maids fair as they — 

I leave reconcilement to lovers — 

The honey I've sipped, so I wander away — 

Oh 1 happy is life to the rovers. 

Who loves only one, 

Of love may taste none ; 

He who will rove 
Is never undone. 

Montreal. Arthur Weir. 



{Contributions. 



THE FUTURE OF CANADIAN UNIVERSITIES. 

BY JOHN WATSON, LL.D. 

Professor of Moral Philosphy in the University of Queen’s Col- 
lege, Kingston, and author of “ Kant and his English cri- 
tics,” and of “ Selections from Kant.” 

No sympathetic critic would say of the Canadian 
people that they are wanting in practical ideas or in 
energy. That cannot fairly be said of a people who 
have boldly drawn on the future, and bound 
ocean to ocean by a gigantic line of railway : who 
have sought to weld into a whole a number of scattered 
provinces, differing in language, religion, customs and 
sentiment, and who, in commercial enterprise, com- 
bine boldness with caution, and energy with thrift. 
But, perhaps, it might be said that the Canadian people 
have not yet grasped the full meaning of political 
unity, and that they are not altogether conscious of 
the importance to national welfare of devotion to art, 
literature, science and philosophy. The idea of pol- 
itical unity, the critic may say, still remains for them 
too much a “mere idea.” Each province, each county, 
each city, is apt to set up for itself as an independent 
unit, and to forget the universal in what seems the 



I 



1888.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



17 



particular good. Even our universities, or at least 
some of their weaker representatives, have shown a 
tendency to view one another as rivals, not as fellow- 
workers in a common cause ; and in some cases city 
and university have confronted each other as antag- 
onists, as when, but the other day, our Provincial Uni- 
versity was under the necessity of wresting from the 
wealthy city for which it has done so much a sum 
which might well have been surrendered spontaneous- 
ly, and even doubled or trebled. This weak grasp of 
the idea of unity is, no doubt, due to a variety of 
causes ; but it is, 1 think, to be referred partly to our 
inadequate conception of the importance of the higher 
culture which a university should seek to foster, and 
an inadequate conception of the special function which 
the university, as a member of the social organism, is 
called upon to discharge. Broadly speaking, the uni- 
versity is the mediator between the past and the future, 
the life of thought and the life of action, the indivi- 
dual and the race. There is, and can be, no “self- 
made” man. Any one left to struggle single-handed 
with the forces of nature would soon find nature all 
too powerful for him. Without association and mu- 
tual helpfulness there could be no progress in the arts 
or in civilization. So, without our schools and colleges 
we should all be condemned to a narrow, monotonous 
existence, unillumined by any higher interests, and 
all scientific discovery, artistic creation and deeper 
comprehension of life would be cut off at their source. 
How stagnant would that society be in which each 
child had laboriously to discover for itself those ele- 
mentary truths, which it now learns without effort 
and almost without consciousness ! It would be, as 
Plato says, a “ society of pigs.” I by no means say 
that even the highest culture may not be obtained 
outside of our universities, but it is safe to say, that 
such culture will be won only by a useless expenditure 
of energy. I am aware that many men of genius have 
owed nothing to the direct teaching of the universities. 
Genius surmounts all obstacles, and is a law to itself. 
But I think it is wise in most of us not to handicap 
ourselves at the start, but rather to assume that, having 
no claim to the rank of genius, we have no claim to 
be a law to ourselves. The universities are, or ought 
to be, the custodians and interpreters of the best 
thought of all time. The narrow experience of the 
individual needs to be supplemented by the wider ex- 
perience of the race, and only he who has taken pains 
to enter sympathetically into this wider experience can 
hope to live a complete life. By a study of the mas- 
terpieces of literature, a man comes to see the world 
“ with other, larger eyes in history he learns how 
nationalities take shape, flourish and decay ; in the 
record of philosophic systems he is carried back to the 
insignificant springs of human thought and forward as 
they deepen and widen into a noble river that flows 
on with ever-increasing volume and energy ; in the 
study of science he makes acquaintance with those 
eternal laws which make the infinite mind visible to 
us. The result of this wide culture, if it is pursued in 
the right spirit, is to make a man look at things from 
a large and unselfish point of view, and to call up in 
him a passion for all that makes for a higher, national, 
social and individual life. The work of the university 



is not simply to supply men with useful information, 
or to provide them with a valuable intellectual gym- 
nastic, or even to make them skilful in their vocation. 
A university of the proper type cannot fail to do all 
these things, but it will do so because it aims at some- 
thing more and higher. Just as it has been said that 
to seek for pleasure is the surest way not to find it, so 
we may say, that a university that merely aims at be- 
ing a sort of living encyclopaedia, or seeks to prepare 
men for a special vocation, or tries to discipline their 
minds to strength and pliancy, will fail, even in this 
limited object. The aim of the university is to pro- 
duce noble, intelligent, unselfish men, and, if it fails 
in that, it has failed of its high vocation. The true 
ideal is to lift men to an altitude where they shall be 
able to contemplate human life as an organic whole, 
ruled by the idea of order and law, and where they 
shall be moved, as by a Divine constraint, to consecrate 
their life to the common weal. With this compre- 
hensive idea and this far-reaching enthusiasm, the true 
university will inspire all who submit to its influence ; 
and for the realization of such a university, almost no 
labor and no sacrifice can be too great. But I must 
try to put these general statements into a more concrete 
shape. Perhaps this cannot be better done than by 
reminding you of the life of a typical student, “ who 
followed his star” with a faithful persistence that en- 
abled him to enrich the world with the undying pro- 
ducts of his genius. I purposely select a man of the 
first rank, because I desire to emphasize the truth that 
even with the highest natural endowment a man can 
do- little for his kind without much hard labor. I re- 
fer to the great poet, who has expressed in what Tieck 
calls “mystic, unfathomable song,” the whole spirit of 
the middle ages. Why does Dante continue to exer- 
cise over the best minds so powerful a fascination 1 Is 
it not because, obsolete as are the forms into which 
his thought is thrown, his conception of life is so true 
in its essence that it affords the richest spiritual nour- 
ishment ? We reject the imagery by which, in the In- 
ferno, the Purgatoria and the Pardiso, the three ideas 
of retribution, repentence and blessedness are bodied 
forth ; but, after all reservations, the truth remains un- 
touched, that evil brings its own punishment, and can 
be expiated only by a repentance that leads to a new 
birth. Thus Dante built upon a foundation that 
stands firm for ail time, high above the ebb and flow 
of our changing creeds ; and his great poem rises be- 
fore us as a stately world- wide edifice. He was no “idle 
singer of an empty day,” no manufacturer of smooth 
and polished conceits, but a man of ideas, who “ saw 
life steadily and saw it whole.” He was a thinker of 
wide and varied experience, who took his work seri- 
ously, and was determined to see things as in reality 
they are. “ This book of mine,” he says, “ has made 
me learn for many years.” Boccaccio tells us that, in 
his boyhood, Dante was a hard student, and had had 
the most intimate acquaintance with all the famous 
poets. “Taken by the sweetness of knowing the truth 
of the things concealed in heaven, and finding no other 
pleasure dearer to him in life, he left all other worldly 
care and gave himself to this alone.” 

( Concluded in next issue.) 



18 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



TflctBUl News. 



FEATHERS FROM THE EAST WING. 



LOST, STRAYED, OR STOLEN. 

I. 

There’s a notice on the glass ; 

(We can see it as we pass, 

And turn for one brief moment to 

Adjust our hair or gown) ; 

Reading — Lost, on Friday night, 

An umbrella with a white 

Bone handle ; will the finder please 

Return to Miss K. Brown. 

II. 

The falling leaves foreshow 
The coming of the snow, 

And still the little notice stands, 

Till Kate thus wrathful speaks : 

“ I wish the thief who stole 
My black silk parasol 
W ould hurry and return it, for 

She’s had it now four weeks.” 

III. 

“ Oh ! Kate,” says Mary White, 

“ I do not think that’s right ; 

I’m sure no girl would purposely 

Your property abstract.” 

But Kate, the while she rips 
Her notice into strips, 

Declares that if she only knew 

The wretch she’d have her tracked. 

IY. 

That night, when Mary goes 
To put by the week’s clean clothes, 

Something shining in a corner 

Causes her to start and groan ; 

It is bony, long, and white, 

And its skirts are black as night, 

It is Katie’s black umbrella 

With the handle of white bone. 

Y. 

Now, students all, who see 
This little history. 

Take warning by the trouble into 

Which these maidens fell. 

If you’re hasty-tempered, muse 
Ere you anyone accuse, 

And if you’re careless steal your 

Own, and not your friend’s ombrelle. 



A meeting of the lady students, of all years, was 
held on Friday, Oct. 19th. In spite of the attractions 
out of doors, in the shape of the sports, a goodly 
number of dutiful students filled the 2nd year class- 
room. 

Miss Reid, as president of the fourth year, seized 
the opportunity offered to make an earnest appeal to 
all students — both Freshmen and those who had 
already left that verdant stage behind them — to ex- 
hibit, and also to cultivate, a spirit of unflagging zeal 
and interest in their college life — its societies as well 
as its lectures. 

The President of the Reading-room gave a satisfac- 
tory account of the manner in which the funds of 



last year had been disposed of, namely, in subscrib- 
ing to the following magazines : Scribner , Popular 

Science Monthly , Century, Illustrated London News. 
Besides these, there are as many more given to the 
Reading-room by outsiders. The following committee 
was elected : — Pres., Miss Wilson ; sec.-treas., Miss 
Inez Botterell ; committee, Misses Hall, Leach, and 
Evans. The next business on hand, the election of 
an editor for the University Gazette, was duly 
proceeded with. Miss Reid was chosen for the posi- 
tion in the room of Miss Evans, whose efficient ser- 
vices have already been acknowledged. 

At this meeting a movement to organize a glee 
club was set on foot, and will, if carried out, greatly 
add to the sociability of the students. 

All endeavours at scientific observation of the in- 
ternal economy of the East Wing have hitherto met 
with little or no success, owing to a premature de- 
posit of hoar-frost upon the Reading-room camera. 

The bell (e) boy, or rather the active Joe of the 
East Wing, has taken unto himself a better half. 
Whether this will increase his zeal in the Donalda 
Department remains to be seen. 

Errata. — An alteration in the officers of the 4th 
year gives the following : — Miss Reid, president ; 
Miss Wilson, vice-president ; Miss Squire, secretary. 

The number of students in the East Wing has in- 
creased from 75 to 94. 

The summer essays in the Science Faculty have 
been handed in ; the prizes will be awarded in Nov- 
ember. 

Mr. A. S. Taylor’s lectures in free-hand drawing 
are meeting with much acceptance among the Science 
students. 

The next meeting of the Canadian Society of Civil 
Engineers will be held on Thursday, 8th November, 
when a paper will be read on the “ Sewerage System 
of Toronto.” 

Professor Penhallow has added another attraction 
to the Museum — two beautiful specimens of the 
Agava Americana, or century plant, which were 
obtained from the conservatory of Mr. Molson. 

The Saturday geological outings have been unfor- 
tunate again this year ; the wet weather has prevented 
the students enjoying many a valuable lesson, and the 
pleasantness of mingling with Nature and McGill’s 
teachers of geology. 

Mr. W. J. Sproule’s prizes for levelling and chain- 
ing in the third and second year, were to have been 
competed for on Saturday. On account of the bad- 
ness of the day the trials were postponed, and are 
taking place every afternoon this week. 

Professors Penhallow and McLeod have been tak- 
ing levels in the ravine, on the College grounds, to 
find out the amount of excavation and filling neces- 
sary for a pond for the cultivation of aquatic plants 
in connection with the Department of Botany. 

A familiar figure on the field sports day was one 
that might easily be mistaken for the Mikado, Shah 



1888.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



19 



of Persia, or King of the Feejee Islands; and how 
could Medicine hut win in the tug of war, when Japan 
incarnate filled the role of “ Anchor ” on the .ZEscula- 
pian team. 

Medicine has taken even more than her usually 
large share of prizes in the recent athletic games. The 
events, including presentation of prizes, passed off 
with decorum worthy of the gentlemen who partici- 
pated, and were it not for the vileness, bordering on 
blackguardism, which characterized the actions of one 
man only in Molson hall, no fault could be found by 
even the most exacting. 

Mr. F. N. Gisborne delivered a lecture, before the 
Canadian Society of Civil Engineers, in the new 
Science rooms, on Thursday week, on the subject of 
the “ Electric Telegraph.” Mr. Gisborne has been 
® n o a g e d in electrical operations for forty years, and 
is really the father of the telegraphic system in 
Canada. Proof is not wanting that he is the origi- 
nator of the scheme for laying an Atlantic cable. The 
lecture will be published in the next volume of the 
Transactions of the Society. Mr. Gisborne intends 
delivering a lecture in the Molson Hall, from which 
any boy or girl can go away with a clear notion of 
the transmission of telegraphic messages. 

An addition has been made to the College Library 
by the presentation of some ninety-seven volumes by 
Mr. Peter Redpath, who has, for some time past, been 
munificently adding to his already large and valuable 
collection of books on the Library shelves. The most 
notable ones are — Twenty-three volumes of Baraude’s 
“ Systeme Silurien ; ” three volumes issued by the 
Palaeographical Society, containing full page photo- 
graphs of ancient MSS. and inscriptions, including a 
representation of the famous Rosetta Stone, now in 
the British Museum ; and also a very handsome 
volume, bound in parchment, and bearing in letters 
of gold the title — “ The Massorah,” by Dr. Ginsburg. 
A number of volumes are donated with the intention 
of completing partial sets already placed in the 
Library by the same donor. 

The following is a list of officers elected in the 
Faculty of Medicine for the ensuing year : — 

FOURTH TEAR. 



President E. W. Gemmill. 

Secretary D. Lowe. 

THIRD TEAR. 

Secretary H. D. Hamilton. 



SECOND TEAR. 

President J. D. Harrison. 

Secretary W. A. Brown. 

FIRST TEAR. 

President C. F. Martin. 

Secretary W. Jamieson. 

Third Year Clinical Medicine is taught by Prof. 
Stewart. This class was formerly conducted by Dr. 
Macdonnell, who is at present in Europe owing to ill 
health. 



MEETING OF CORPORATION. 

At a meeting held on Wednesday, the new regula- 
tions, for the election of fellows, were laid on the 
table in printed form. 

A resolution was passed recognizing the long ser- 
vices to the University of the late Prof. Markgraf. 

The number of students in the several faculties 
was entered as follows : — 



Law 




ii 


<< 




9 


Medicine 




194 


Arts 




189 


it 




94 

i 


Applied Science. . . 







A report was read from the Faculty of Law, refer- 
ring to its new class-rooms in the Fraser Institute, 
and to the improved arrangements made for the lec- 
tures in the present session. Reference was also 
made to the failure to obtain an amendment of the 
Bar Act at last session of the Legislature, and it was 
decided to make a further effort at Quebec before 
finally carrying the matter in appeal to Ottawa. 

The Library Committee reported numerous dona- 
tions, especially that of ninety-seven volumes of very 
valuable books on history and science, from Mr. 
Peter Redpath, to whom the thanks of the University 
were given. 

The Museum Committee reported several donations, 
and also the issue of two numbers of “ Notes on 
Specimens” in the Peter Redpath Museum, to be 
followed by others. 

The report of the Normal School was presented by 
Dr. Robins, and showed an attendance of ninety- 
three students, of whom a large proportion were from 
the country; that under the new regulations eight 
female students from the Normal School were pursu- 
ing their studies in the college ; that important repairs 
to the building had been completed, and the founda- 
tion of a workshop, for the boys of the Model School, 
laid. 

Exemptions were granted to theological students in 
Morrin College, Quebec, to the same extent as in the 
affiliated Theological Colleges in Montreal.- 

Returns were presented by the Dean of the Faculty 
of Arts, showing the relative number of failures in 
the matriculation examinations, and the number of 
students who failed in the several years of the course, 
from which the difficulty of raising the standard of 
matriculation was apparent, owing to the imperfect 
preparation of many of the candidates. Various sug- 
gestions were made as to the means of raising the 
standard, and the matter was referred to the Faculty 
of Arts for further investigation. 

A report was also made as to the progress of negotia- 
tions with reference to assimilating matriculation ex- 
aminations in Quebec with those in Ontario. 

It was announced that Dr. Wickstead, of Ottawa, 
had renewed his gift of gold, silver, and bronze 
medals for physical culture, and the thanks of the 
University were voted to him. 

The Principal read papers relating to the registra- 



* 69 are freshmen. 



20 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



tion of Canadian graduates in medicine in Great 
Britain, and on . the steps now being taken to secure 
this privilege for Canadian graduates under the liberal 
provisions of the British Medical Act of 1886. 

Arrangements were made for the publication of a 
triennial list of graduates, and the accounts of the 
University and a report of the auditor were sub- 
mitted. 



A BATCH OF DEFINITIONS. 

III. 

Alchemy. — An Eastern Tale of Wonder, told to 
Science in its infancy. 

Amusement. — A toy helping to teach us how to or- 
ganize labour. 

Ball-room. — A hot-house for growing exotic man- 
ners. 

Bank. — A gilt barge on the river Credit, in which 
grandees are carried forward by the 
labour of the horses on the towing- 
path. 

Bee. — A labourer, partner, and out-door collector in 
an extensive sugar factory. 

Character. — Personal property which everybody 
looks after for you. 

Charity. — Sunshine in Iceland. 

City. — The palace of Wealth, and the hiding-place of 
Poverty. 

Clock. — The sentinel who notes the transit of every 
passenger through the gate of Time’s 
citadel. 

Commerce. — A cord that binds bodies of nations to- 
gether, but which often slips on to 
their necks and strangles them. 

Contentment. — The mask under which people con- 
ceal their dissatisfaction. 

Coquette. — A child playing with fire. 

Cromwell. — A chess-player who struck the King 
from the board, instead of checking 
him. 

Debt. — The example set by a Government to its 
people. 

Dinner. — Mind’s daily homage to Body. 

Duel. — F olly tampering with murder. 

Emigration. — One country’s draft upon another. 

Metaphysics. — Words to stay the appetite till facts 



Societies. 



McGILL MEDICAL SOCIETY. 

The first regular meeting of the McGill Medical 
Society, for the Winter Session 1888-89, was held 
on Oct. 5th, at 8 p.m., in the Upper Reading-room. 
The revision of the by-laws formed the chief business, 
and when the proposed amendments had been read 
and adopted, it was decided to have a requisite num- 
ber of copies printed, so that each member of the 
society might be presented with one. Future meet- 
ings are to be held fortnightly, on Saturday evenings. 



The second regular meeting of the McGill Medical 
Society was held on Saturday, Oct. 13th, at 7.3 
p.m., in the Upper Reading-room, the president, Mr. 
Campbell, in the chair. After miscellaneous busi- 
ness, the paper for the evening was read by Mr. 
Delaney, the subject being “ Medical Humbug, and 
Mr. Garrow gave a case report. Both subjects were 
debated by the society, and well appreciated. 

The secretary of the society is Mr. H. D. Hamilton. 



DELTA SIGMA SOCIETY. 

On Friday, Oct. 5th, the fourth annual meeting of 
the Delta Sigma Society was held in the 2nd year 
class-room, and was opened by Miss Squire, the vice- 
president, with a few well-chosen words. After read- 
ing the constitution, the secretary, Miss Botterell, 
proceeded to give a report of the society s doings 
during the past year. Among the many improve- 
ments introduced, that of impromptu debates was, 
perhaps, most noteworthy as having so strongly as- 
sisted in giving fluency and confidence to the 
speakers. This innovation, and the open discussions 
after the debates, together with the untiring energies 
of the committee, especially of the president, in- 
creased the interest of the students and added to the 
number of names in the roll-book. The secretary 
intimated that, although the competitors for the prize 
given to the best essay on “ The Higher Education 
of Women in Relation to her Social and Domestic 
Functions,” were not many, still the character of work 
sent in was excellent, and in all probability this com- 
petition would become annual. While welcoming 
all new students in the name of the society, the secre- 
tary gave expression to the regret felt by its old mem- 
bers at the absence of those who have had the honour 
and also the ability to originate what is now a flourish- 
ing institution. The new members were then en- 
rolled, after which Miss Derick took the chair while 
the officers for the coming year were elected. Their 
names are as follows : — Miss Maude Squire, pres. ; 
Miss Botterell, vice-pres. ; Miss Smith, sec.-treas. ; 
committee, Misses Reid, Derick, Finley, and Pitcher. 

Thanks are hereby tendered to Dr. Murray and 
Dr. Eaton, for having so kindly altered certain lecture 
hours to suit the convenience of the Delta Sigma. 

The first regular meeting of the Delta Sigma So- 
ciety was held Thursday, Oct. 25th. A stirring de- 
bate — “Resolved, that private life is preferable to 
public,” was opened by Miss Binmore, on the affirma- 
tive, who spoke with great ease and scored some good 
points for her side. Miss M. N. Evans answered Miss 
Binmore with a few well-chosen words, and was ably 
followed by Miss Smith (affirmative), and Miss Hall 
(negative), Miss Binmore closing the debate. The 
vote was taken and resulted in a victory for the nega- 
tive by a majority of six. 

The president then spoke of the advisability of 
having a critic at the meetings, and, after some dis- 
cussion, the votes were taken, resulting in favor of 
having a critic. Several new members sent in their 
names and subscriptions, after which the meeting was 
adjourned. 









1888.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



21 



Y.M.C.A. NOTES. 

The annual reception tendered to incoming students 
was held on the evening of the 6th of October, in the 
Molson Hall. Twenty -six years ago that day the hall 
had been opened, so that with the reception was com- 
bined the element of an anniversary celebration. It 
was also founder’s day. The library, lecture-rooms 
and laboratories of the college were thrown open for 
the inspection of visitors. Refreshments were pro- 
vided by the kindness of the lady friends of the so- 
ciety. During the evening short addresses were given 
by Sir Wm. Dawson and the President, Mr. Evans 
(Med.) Music mingled with the conversation, and 
the time passed quickly and enjoyably, in spite of 
gloomy memories which hung about the grim room, 
so wonderfully transformed. 

The books of the Y.M.C.A. show a splendid in- 
crease in membership this year. In Arts, nearly all 
have connected themselves with the society, either as 
active or associate members ; in Science and Medicine, 
also, the lists are greatly enlarged. 

The usual weekly meetings continue to be held in 
the city Y.M.C.A. rooms on Victoria square, and the 
prayer meeting in lecture-room No. 7, Arts building, 
on Tuesday evening, at 7-7.30 p.m. 

On the evening of Saturday, Oct. 20, Sir Wm. 
Dawson invited the members of the College Y.M.C.A. 
and their friends to spend a social hour with him at 
his residence. Sir William, in his genial manner, 
showed how science could be made interesting to all, 
both in his conversation and in the short informal 
address which he delivered on Eastern Travel. A very 
pleasant evening was spent, and the students returned 
well pleased with the first of the social talks which 
our Principal intends delivering. 

Invitations have been issued by Sir Wm. Dawson 
for a second and third evening similar to this one, on 
Nov. 17 and Dec. 9, when his entertaining addresses 
will be continued. 

The week of prayer for colleges and college young 
men has been appointed for next week. 

Mr. R. P. Wilder, a graduate last year of Princeton, 
is to be present with us for Nov. 4, 5, and 6, when he 
will address the students. He is an intending mis- 
sionary, and in his subject, “ Foreign Missions,” his 
words will carry conviction with them. 

On Nov. 10 and 11, Mr. A. A. Stagg, Yale’s athlete 
and base-ball pitcher, will visit the Y.M.C.A. and ad- 
dress the meeting on Sunday. His colleague, R. P. 
Reynolds, is expected to accompany him. 



UNDERGRADUATES’ LITERARY SOCIETY. 

The first meeting of this society, held on Friday, 
September 28th, was only for the election of officers, 
resulting, as stated in our previous number : — Presi- 
dent, Mr. Truell ; 1st Vice-President, Mr. Davidson; 
2nd Vice-President, Mr. Ellenwood ; Treasurer, Mr. 
Mattice, Sc. ; Secretary, Mr. Hall (A.R.) ; Assistant 
Secretary, Mr. Oliver. Special Committee : — Messrs. 
Rogers, Elliott, Mack, Walsh and Smith. 



The second meeting, on the following Friday, in 
spite of the fact that the performers had short notice, 
was a good omen for the coming year. The numbers 
present and the interest shown were very encouraging. 

After an essay by Mr. Gibson, Messrs. Mack and 
Craik read very good selections. 

The debate — “Resolved, that all societies, having 
for their object mental culture, should have perfect 
freedom of speech,” was opened by Mr. Macdougall 
for the affirmative, Messrs. Bryson and Ryan support- 
ing him ; while Messrs. Mack and Carmichael, led by 
Mr. LeRossignol, upheld the negative. 

The meeting decided in favor of the affirmative. At 
the beginning of the meeting Mr. Kinghorn, and at 
the close, Mr. Carmichael, sang. 

The third meeting, held on October 12th, was, on 
account of the rain, not equal to its predecessor in 
numbers, yet it was quite as successful, since the de- 
baters had more time for preparation. 

Mr. Cameron was the reader. 

The debate — “ Resolved, that the administration 
of public affairs under Cromwell was a wise and just 
one,” was carried for the affirmative by Messrs. Rogers, 
Warne and Davidson, who were opposed by Messrs. 
Garth and Tory. 

Three old members, Messrs. Topp, Hibbard and 
England, were received with storms of applause, as 
each rose to address the meeting. Messrs. Davidson 
and Jamieson supplied the music. 

The programme of the regular meeting on Friday, 
the 26th of October, was a successful one, notwith- 
standing the absence of the reader and one of the 
singers. 

The absence of the reader, Mr. Warne, necessitated 
the opening of the programme by the essayist, Mr. 
Elliott, who read an eloquent paper on the Gift of 
Speech. 

Mr. Kinghorn gave the popular song “ Dashing 
through the snow;” after which the debate on the 
question, “Resolved, that pursuit is productive of 
more happiness than possession,” was opened by Mr. 
Deeks, for the affirmative, supported by Messrs. Rob- 
ertson (3rd yr.) and Reeves. The negative was up- 
held by Mr. Davidson, under the leadership of Mr. 
Fraser (3rd yr.) Decision was given in favor of the 
negative. 

Mr. Gibson acted as Critic for the evening, and with 
his address the meeting was brought to a close. 



COUNT TOLSTOI. 

What a strange personality is that of Count Leo 
Tolstoi ! A wild youth, according to his own confes- 
sions, the founder of the realistic school which Zola 
has disgraced, the country magistrate and educationist, 
and finally the religionist, he was peculiar in all phases. 
His school was a bedlam, for he held that there should 
be no rewards or punishments, and that the children 
should learn whatever they choose. His religion led 
him to abandon his luxuries and become a day laborer 
among the peasantry. 

Such a person cannot but create interest, if he have 
any intelligence whatever, and Tolstoi is by no means 
lacking in brain. 



22 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



He was born at the maternal estate of Jasnaja 
Poljana, near Toula, in 1829. He attended the Uni- 
versity of Kazen, entering the faculty of foreign lan- 
guages in 1843. Two years after he left the Univer- 
sity, and entered the army in 1851, having occupied 
the interval in home studies. He began to write 
shortly after entering the army. He was serving 
under Gortschakoff on the Danube in 1853, and took 
part in the defense of Sebastopol. 

At the close of the war he left the army and devoted 
himself to literature, spending the summer at Moscow 
and the winter at St. Petersburg, until 1861, when he 
became a magistrate and retired into the country. 
Here he devoted himself to education and the im- 
provement of the peasantry. His greatest work, “Anna 
Karenina,” was written in 1875-77, since which time 
his beliefs have undergone a change and led to his 
renunciation of the life of his own class and the 
adoption of that of the working classes. 

He is at present at work upon his autobiography, 
which, there is little doubt, will prove one of the most 
interesting works ever published. 

Arthur Weir. 



Sporting. 



ANNUAL FIELD MEETING OF THE McG. U. 

A. A. 

Friday, the 19th October, dawned cloudy but rain- 
less. At an early hour the college grounds were filled 
with participants in the sports and their more intimate 
friends. The ladies, as usual, did not appear till the 
afternoon. The utmost good humour prevailed, and 
with the exception of Conolly’s unfortunate accident, 
and the slight jealousy of Hughes incautiously ex- 
pressed by some, peace and good-will reigned through- 
out. None of the records were extraordinary, but 
Martin’s hammer throw and Murray’s performance 
with the heavy weight were extremely good for totally 
untrained men. In the mile run, Morrow was not very 
fast, but extremely pretty. McKenzie’s jumping was 
another graceful feat. The walking match, always an 
ungainly show, was gamely contested and caused ad- 
miration as well as amusement. The extraordinary 
success of the medical students culminated in their 
winning the tug-of-war, which provoked a tremendous 
storm of enthusiasm. The Arts men have proffered 
numerous explanations of their defeat, the most scien- 
tific being the difficulty of raising Mr. Wheeler from 
the recumbent posture, once he has assumed it. 

Pool selling on a small scale was indulged in to a 
considerable extent, but no one suffered severely. An 
immense number of pretty girls were present, and 
made up for the lack of sunshine. Their illogical 
comments on the various events were received with 
submission by our notoriously courteous students. 
The rain, which came on about 3.30 o’clock, thinned 
them out somewhat. 

The band of the Victoria Rifles furnished music, 
which added considerably to the pleasure of the day. 

The prizes were distributed in the Molson Hall by 
Mrs. Molson amid the usual contributions, musical and 
ribald, from the back benches. 



Following is a complete list of the results : 

Kicking football — J. M. Hughes, 123 ft. 

Throwing hammer (16 lbs.) — 1st. M. Martin, 67 ft. 5 in. ; 
2nd. H. McKeown, 61 ft. 7 in. 

Running broad jump — 1st. J. M. Hughes, 18 ft.; 2nd. J. 
Moore, 16 ft 8£ in. 

Putting shot (16 lbs.) — 1st. M. W. Murray, 32 ft. 3^ in. ; 
2nd. F. S. Yorston, 29 ft. 2£ in. 

Hurdle race — 1st. J. M. Hughes ; 2nd. E. E. W. Whyte ; 3rd. 
M. J. Connolly ; time 20f sec. 

Throwing cricket ball — C. A. Ault, 107 ft. 11 in. 

Standing broad jump — 1st. R. T. Mackenzie, 8 ft. Ilf in. , 
2nd. J. Moore, 8 ft. in. 

Throwing heavy weight (56 lbs.) — 1st. W. M. Murray, 18 ft. 
iu ; 2nd. H. McKeown, 17 ft. 10 in. 

Tug-of-war (1st pull) — Arts vs. Yets, won by Arts by 5 in. 

2nd pull (final) — Arts vs. Medicos, won by Medicos by 1 inch . 
High jump — 1st. R. S. McKenzie, 5 ft. 6 in. ; 2nd. W. Mc- 
Gill, 4 ft. 11 in. ; 3rd. A. J. Connolly, 4 ft. 8 in. 

440-yards run — 1st. J. M. Hughes, 55f sec. ; 2nd. W. L. 
Jamieson, 56 sec. 

Pole leap — 1st. J. D. Harrison, 8 ft. ; 2nd. A. Lamb, 8 ft. 
440-yards run — 1st. J. M. Hughes, 55f sec. ; 2nd. W. L. 
Jamieson, 56 sec. 

One-mile run — 1st. W. Morrow, 5 min. 1 sec. ; 2nd. A. 
Lamb, 5 min. 11 \ sec. 

One-mile walk — 1st. D. D. White, 8 min. 55 sec. ; 2nd. W. 
Beattie, 8 min. 56 sec. 

880-yards run — 1st. A. Lamb, 2 min. 18 sec. ; 2nd. D. St. 
Louis, 2 min. 22 sec. 

Three-legged race — 1st. J. M. Hughes and J. Moore. 

One-mile bicycle race — 1st. H. M. Ramsay, 3 min. 344 sec. ; 
2nd. M. L. Williams. 

220-yards run — 1st. W. L. Jamieson ; 2nd. J. M. Hughes. 
Time, 255 sec. 



’VARSITY VS. McGILL. 

Saturday, the 27th inst., was the day chosen for this 
annual event, the event, one might say, of Toronto- 
McGill football circles. The day was not the most 
favorable in the world, but “ the man on the 
hill ” was good enough to stop the rain long enough 
to allow the match to be played in semi-fine weather. 
This, however, did not better the ground, which was 
in a beastly state. Despite the weather, however, 
quite a number of spectators, including many ladies, 
turned out to see the collegians at play. 

Ihe following men lined up for their respective 
colleges at the call of play. Both teams looked very 
well, and are a remarkably well-developed set of fel- 
lows : 



* Varsity . 
Johnston 

Senkler (H.) # Capt. 
Boyd 

Mackay 

Moss 

Senkler (W. J.) 
Moran 

Smith 

Symes 

Badgeron 

Sullivan 

Watt 



Position. 

Back 

| Half-backs 

| Quarter backs 

| Wings 

"1 

* Forwards 



McGill . 

Hamilton (D.) 
Grahamn 

i Hamilton (H.) 

{ Smart 

| Mulligan 

Hughes 

Walsh 

f Jamieson (Capt.) 
Webster 
Whyte 
- Rexford 
McMillan 
Robertson 
McLean 
L Richards 
awa F.B.C. 

P. M. Robertson, 



Moss 

Cress 

Bursau 



Referee— C. H. MacNutt, B.A.Sc., ’88, Ottawa F.B.( 
Umpires— G. McLean, ’Varsity F.B.C. 

B.A., McGill F.B.C. 



1888.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



23 



’Varsity won the toss, and decided to defend the 
southern end of the field. McGill then kicking off 
against the wind, the ball was returned to centre and 
scrimmaged. From this scrimmage, the ball was 
passed to H. Senkler, who, however, was gamely 
tackled by H. Hamilton, before he could get in his 
kick. Here followed in succession, tight scrimmages, 
from which ’Varsity got in a long kick into the home 
team’s territory. This was well returned by Grahamn. 
The sphere now travelled rapidly from one end of the 
field to the other, McGill at one time nearly scoring. 
At the call of half-time, the ball was just about mid- 
field, no points as yet beiDg taken. 

On play being resumed, Senkler kicked off for 
’Varsity, the ball was rather poorly returned, and a 
scrimmage in McGill’s territory was the result ; how- 
ever, the latter slowly worked the ball up field, and 
carried it “ out of play” near centre-field ; the throw- 
out was secured by a Torontonian, who, however, 
failed to do anything with it, and there was a scrim- 
mage. The ball then travelled to D. Hamilton, who 
secured a free kick. ’Varsity blocked the kick, and 
rushed it down in good style, gaining a safety-touch. 
The kick-out was caught by Senkler, who, however, 
failed to return it. A scrimmage resulted, ’Varsity, as 
usual, tried to pass back, but McGill’s wings were too 
quick for them and prevented much kicking. The ball 
was now gradually worked into ’Varsity ground, and 
Smart, who throughout played a fine game, by a well- 
placed kick sent the leather up the field. ’Varsity 
attempted to return it, was smartly blocked by Hughes, 
who kicked the ball behind Toronto’s goal-posts, and 
a safety-touch resulted for McGill. Time was shortly 
afterwards called, and the match declared a draw, the 
score being two to two. 

Both teams cannot be too highly complimented on 
their good and gentlemanly play throughout. It was 
just such a match as one would expect from two such 
universities as Toronto and McGill. The visitors 
played an excellent game throughout, and fought hard 
for every inch of ground, while McGill played first- 
class football. 



THE DINNER. 

In the evening, the visitors were entertained right 
royally at the Balmoral. 

The chair was filled by D. W. McLean, the Presi- 
dent of the McG. F.B.C., in his usual happy manner. 

After the good things were dispensed by the hands 
of some colored gentlemen, who kindly offered to as- 
sist in this little demonstration, and heartily enjoyed 
by both guests and hosts alike, the toast of the 
University College F.B.C. was drunk with much en- 
thusiasm. This called forth a neat reply, and a hearty 
counter-toast from our good friends of the ’Varsity. 
The proceedings were then relieved by several songs. 
The usual toast of the referee was then proposed, and 
that gentleman, in the course of a few remarks, com- 
plimented the Toronto boys on their excellent and 
gentlemanly play. Mr. Delaney then favored the as- 
sembled multitude with a song and an impromptu 
war-dance, one of the features of the evening. 

The dinner broke up at an early hour in the usual 



manner. Before going out, one of the aforesaid col- 
ored gentlemen was called on for a speech. Accord- 
ingly, he mounted a chair and opened by “Friends and 
fellow-citizens.” He then proceeded, with a great 
deal of natural ease and eloquence, to give his views 
on things in general, and nothing in particular. Un- 
fortunately, the flow of his conversation wa3 abruptly 
stopped by the boys summarily knocking him off the 
chair, and forthwith elevating him, and thus the world’s 
history lost one of its brightest pages. 



GRADUATES VS. UNDERGRADUATES. 

This match, according to a custom which is 
still kept up, was played on the college grounds on 
Wednesday afternoon, the 24th inst. 

It did one good to see the “ old boys,” all of whom 
have played on the college first during different years 
of its existence, file out upon the old battlefield. A com- 
plete collection of McGill’s many changes of uniform 
might have been obtained here, from the old chocolate 
and cream, to the new white jerseys. 

Neither side was fully represented, but the follow- 
ing is the list of players : 

Grads— A. W. Smith, B.C.L. ; H. Cockfield, B.A. ; E. H. 
Hamilton, B.A. Sc., (Capt.) ; J. Naismilh, B.A. ; H. A. Bud- 
den, B.A., B.C.L. ; P. M. Itobertson, B.A.; C. Claxton, B.A., 
C. H. Macnutt, B.A. Sc. ; A. Drummond, B.A. Sc. ; C. King- 
ston, B.A.; H. M. Patton, B.A. 

Uundergrads — W. Jamieson, (Capt.) ; Rexford, Walsh, Web- 
ster, Mulligan, Hughes, Smart, D. Hamilton, McMillan, Mathe- 
son, Kinghorn, McDougall, Halliday, Rankin. 

After a great deal of unnecessary delay on the part 
of the Undergrads , the ball was faced about 4.30, Drum- 
mond kicking off for the Grads. A determined rush 
on the part of the old boys, led by MacNutt, followed, 
and by a neat piece of combination play, a free kick 
was secured by Hamilton, which Budden converted 
into a goal, by a very fine kick indeed. The play 
then became much tighter, and scrimmages followed 
each other in rapid succession. At the end of the 
half the “grads” were still to the fore. In the second 
half, the superior training of the college soon showed 
itself, and the points were slowly piled up against the 
“old ’uns,” who, by this time, were in a nicely pumped 
state. Toward the end of the game Walsh made a fine 
run in, and got his touch, which McLean lifted over 
the bar. The game was then called owing to the dark- 
ness, the score standing 19 to 7 in favor of the college. 



On Saturday, a match will be played between Mc- 
Gill and Queen’s Football Clubs on the McGill 
grounds. 



HOCKEY. 

The annual meeting of the Hockey Club has already 
been held. The reports were read, and found satis- 
factory. The election of officers resulted as follows : — 
President, D. B. Holden, 4th Arts ; secretary- treasurer, 
H. Kinghorn, 3rd Arts; committee, J. F. Walsh, 
Med. ; A. H. Hawkins, Science ; A. Walsh, Arts. 
The members of the above committee were appointed 
delegates to the Canadian Hockey Association. 



24 UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. t 1888 * 



TORONTO UNIVERSITY SPORTS. 

The ’Varsity sports of University College, Toronto, 
took place on the 24th. There was considerable de- 
lay in starting the competitors, and the track was too 
heavy, owing to rain, for records to be broken. The 
times of the principal events were as follows : Putting 
the shot, 31 ft. 11-^ in. ; running broad jump 19 feet ; 
220 yards, 25£ sec. ; half-mile run, 2 min. 26 sec. ; 
100 yards, 11 sec. ; high jump, 5 ft. 2 in. ; 440 yards, 
57 3-5ths sec. ; mile run, 5 min. 14 sec. 

By comparing these records with those made at our 
own sports, it can be seen how athletics stand at the 
other universities. 



Personals. 



F. W. Hibbard, B.A., '87, who has been teaching 
in Lincoln College, Sorel, is looking round the Uni- 
versity and Law Courts. 

It is a matter of pleasure to every student and 
frequenter of the Library to know that Mr. Mott’s 
position has been made permanent by the Corpora- 
tion. 

Dr. Macdonell has, from late accounts, gained ten 
pounds in flesh, and is walking five miles a day. This 
is gratifying to everyone who has ever met this genial 
and gentlemanly physician and teacher. 

C. H. MacNutt, B. Ap. Sc., ’88, has returned from 
his summer voyage of exploration to the Hudson Bay, 
where he was first assistant in the party under the 
charge of Mr. A. P. Lowe, B. Ap. Sc. He came down 
to stripe the town, and it was like a gleam from the 
old days to see his muscular form commanding the 
old haunts. 



Exchanges. 

The AhnafiUan for October, published in the in- 
terests of young women, and devoted to religion, 
temperance, moral and social reform, education, 
music, fine arts, and literature, at Alma College, St. 
Thomas, Ont., is a good number, and largely fills the 
place it is meant to occupy. 

The Tuftonian is a strong, well- arranged number, 
with a good editorial department. Like most Ameri- 
can College journals, it deals largely with questions 
apart from college life. 

The Knox College Monthly, for October, may rank 
almost apart from college literature in the standard 
value of its articles on ecclesiastical and literary sub- 
jects; it is a magazine worthy of a place on any 
thoughtful man’s table. 

The Presbyterian College Journal deserves the same 
remark, in the strength and weight of its articles. 
Periodicals issued by Theological Colleges stand in a 
class by themselves, and may not be fairly blamed for 
reflecting too dimly the life and world in which the 
students move, for they are at the beginning of a seri- 
ous work which sheds a light backward not favorable 
to a reproduction of the lighter phases of college life. 



We have at hand a number of Our School Times , 
from Foyle College, Londonderry, and it is always 
welcome. Old country college journals are interesting 
in the view they give of contemporary students life, but 
they partake more of the nature of professional school 
papers, and do not appear to take so deep root in 
student interest as those edited in American colleges. 

The Censor, published by St. Mary’s Collegiate 
Institute, marks an encouraging tendency to an in- 
creased appreciation of sound, wholesome English, 
and the necessity for its study. 

The College Student, from Lancaster, Pa., is one of 
our fullest and freshest exchanges ; it is rich in every- 
thing pertaining to college life, and has an eye for 
literary culture beyond the class-room. 

The following is from an exchange : — 

Do not keep the alabaster boxes of your love and 
tenderness sealed up until your friends are dead, but 
fill their lives with sweetness. Speak approving and 
cheering words while their ears can hear them, and 
while their hearts can be thrilled and made happier 
by them. The kind things you will say after they 
are gone, say before they go. The flowers you mean 
to send for their coffins, bestow now, and so brighten 
and sweeten their homes before they leave them. 

If my friends have alabaster boxes laid away, full 
of fragrant perfumes of sympathy and affection, which 
they intend to break over my dead body, I would 
rather they would bring them now in my weary and 
troubled hours, and open them, that I may be re- 
freshed and cheered, while I need them and can en- 
joy them. I would rather have a plain coffin without 
a flower, and a luneral without an eulogy, than a life 
without the sweetness of love and sympathy. Let us 
learn to anoint our friends beforehand for their 
burial. 

Post-mortem kindness cannot cheer the burdened 
spirit. Flowers on the coffin shed no fragrance back- 
ward over the weary way by which the loved ones 
have travelled. 



College TiUorlb. 



President Carter, of Williams College, has received 
a gift of $20,000 to found a library fund in honour 
of James Ruthven Adriance of the Class of ’78, who 
died a year after graduation. 

The magnum opus of Dr. Moore, the learned Prin- 
cipal of St. Edmund Hall, Oxford, is now approach- 
ing completion, and will soon be issued — curiously 
enough — by the Cambridge University press. It is 
an exhaustive work on the textual criticism of Dante’s 
“ Commedia.” 

The new wing of the Alma College at St. Thomas, 
Ont., was opened on the 16th with befitting cere- 
monies. The wing will be known as McLachlin Hall, 
in honour of the late Archibald McLachlin, Registrar 
of Elgin, who took a prominent part in the erection 
of Alma College and its welfare, and at the time of 
his death occupied a seat on the board. 



1888.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



25 



The Japanese students at Cornell University have 
a way of cooking the English sparrows so that they 
make a very palatable dish, and the Japs like them so 
much that they make a standing offer of three cents 
each for all the sparrows brought to them. 

The Harvard College Faculty Committee on ath- 
letics have made an exhaustive report on Athletics at 
Harvard and their effect on students. The com- 
mittee have reported as follows : — “ The average 
strength of students and the perfection of their physi- 
cial development have greatly increased during ten 
years. At present there are about one hundred men 
in college stronger than the strongest man in 1880. 
The regularity and moderation of life necessary for 
men in training have a very favourable effect on 
health.” As to the effect on scholarship, the report 
says that participation in athletics does not seriously 
interfere with college attendance, and lowers neither 
the standing of those who take part in them (except 
freshmen) nor the general standing of the college. 
On the contrary, the standard of scholarship has risen 
with the increase of athletics. While athletes have 
won college honours, the fourteen men who take no 
exercise are reported below the average of scholarship. 
The statistics collected from 1,021 men are interesting, 
and it is pleasing to note that, of special sports, bicyc- 
ling ranks in popularity below base-ball, foot-ball, 
horse-back riding, rowing, and running ; and is above 
bowling, canoeing, coasting, cricket, driving, hand- 
ball, lacrosse, polo, domestic calisthenics, shooting, 
skating, sparring, swimming, and track athletics. Of 
the 1,021 students at Harvard 84 use wheels. 

A startling advance in surgical science has been made 
by Dr. Maximilian Klein, a German military surgeon . 
The particulars are given by the professional journal 
Memorabilien. A man accidentally cut off his left great 
toe in the middle of the first joint. The severed piece 
remained hanging to the foot, but the connecting skin 
was scarcely thicker than a thread. Dr. Klein sewed 
on the fragment, dressed it with iodoform, and had 
the satisfaction, in twenty-two days, of finding the 
wound healed and the toe perfectly sound and flexible. 
Encouraged by the unexpected result in this case, Dr. 
Klein was induced to apply the same treatment again. 
A recruit, in order to disable himself and so escape 
from military service, deliberately cut off his fore- 
finger with an axe at the second joint. The finger end 
was lost, and could not be found until half-an-hour 
had elapsed. It was then cold and blue. Nevertheless 
Dr. Klein sewed it to the stump and applied a bandage 
of iodoform gauze. As early as the second day it was 
evident that circulation had been partly re-established 
throughout the finger, and in six weeks the man had 
not only left hospital, but was doing the very rifle 
drill which he had hoped to shirk. The finger was, 
in fact, as serviceable as it had ever been. These stories 
read almost like extracts from the exploits of Baron 
Miinchhausen. That they are chronicled in Memora- 
bilien is, however, evidence of their truth. English 
surgeons will not be so unwilling to credit them as 
they would have been in the days before the discovery 
of the marvellous properties of iodoform. 



Between the Lectures. 



A little walk, 

A little talk, 

A little word well spoken ; 

A little ring, 

A tiny thing, 

But true love’s dearest token. 

A little house, 

A little spouse, 

A little while in clover ; 

A little joy, 

A little boy, 

And the honeymoon is over. 



Padlocks for sale — apply East Wing. 

Question in Surgery Class — What has become of 
Dr. Fenwick’s specimens 1 

Still does England’s aggressive policy continue, 
and Cook is the next to suffer. 

The class of ’90 boasts of a profound pathologist 
and an erudite diagnostician ! Next. 

“ Man, proud man, dressed in a little brief autho- 
rity” — a lawyer. This is a joke for the Law Faculty. 

Prof. H. T. Bovey, A.M.I.C.E., may appropriately 
be styled “ a form with a.m.i.c.e. wrapped around,” 
may he not 1 

“ Have a drop 1 ” said the sherriff to the prisoner, 
as they started for the scaffold. “ Don’t care if I do,” 
replied the prisoner ; “ I’ll take a sling.” 

Freshie — How do you say the patient’s tongue was 
secured 1 

Junior (gravely) — They fastened it to his toes. 

“ Fortune brings in some boats that are not 
steered.” Shakespeare must have been thinking of 
courtship, which has two mates, and neither captain 
or pilot. 

Student in Physiology — “ All the tract’s a stage, 
and all the juices merely players ; they have their 
exits and their entrances, and each in its time plays 
many parts. 

Professor of Chemistry — “Gentlemen, I hold in 
my hand a vial of soda. What chemical shall I com- 
bine with it to produce a valuable article of com- 
merce 1 ” Goodsby (waking up) — “ Br-r-randy ! ” 

“ There is very little difference, indeed,” as a new- 
fledged Junior was heard to remark, “between a 
Third Year man and a Sophomore ; the one is a 
sophomore, the other a soph-no-more — that’s all, 
see ! ” 

In referring to the Tichborne case during a lecture 
on jurisprudence, it was stated that a fish accidentally 
passed through Sir Roger’s eye-lid, on the trip to 
Australia. The boys from Upper Canada regard the 
story as a “ fishy” one. 

“ I wouldn’t cry, little boy,” said a kind old gentle- 
man, consolingly ; “ you may be unhappy for the 
moment, but it will soon pass away. You wouldn’t 
expect me to cry, would you, every time I’m a little 



26 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



unhappy 1” “No, sir,” responded the tearful little 
lad, “ you’d prob’ly go an’ get drunk.” 

Countryman (to passenger en route for Sing Sing) — 
“ What’s them thim-i-jigs you’ve got on your wrists, 
friend 1” Sing Sing passenger — “That’s a little de- 
vice of my own, stranger. I’m a very popular candi- 
date for office, an’ I put them on so I won’t he shak- 
ing hands with every Tom, Dick, an’ Harry.” Coun- 
tryman — “ Gosh ! ” 



Horresponfcence. 



PRIVATE CLASSES, AND THAT SORT OF 

THING. 

When an intending student examines the calendar 
of a college with which he purposes connecting him- 
self, he usually makes his calculations as to cost, etc., 
according to the scale of fees charged for classes, ad- 
vertised and authorized by the faculty. 

Frequently, however, it is discovered that a system 
of private classes, technically called “ grinds,” is in 
vogue, offering advantages far superior to what might 
be hoped for by taking the regular course ; and I am 
sorry to say, that the Faculty of Medicine is not be- 
hind in this respect — the whole being highly sugges- 
tive of a circus, in which you pay fifty cents for ad- 
mittance to the big tent, and twenty-five to the side 
shows. 

The usual fee for such classes is from ten to twelve 
dollars, so that it not unfrequently occurs that stu- 
dents, who happen not to be in opulent circumstances, 
are for this reason unable to fight the battle of com- 
petition on an equal footing with more fortunate 
neighbours. 

The whole tendency is evil. It serves to cause a 
lack of attention in the regularly authorized lectures, 
because students are apt to rely on being coached up 
in the so-called “ grinds.” In addition to this, it is 
unfair to some of the students that want of cold cash 
should act as a handicap to them in the struggle for 
“ survival of the fittest.” 

Lastly, this imposition should be discontinued by 
the faculty, and if demonstrators and their assistants 
persist in holding private classes, they should be com- 
pelled to do so in private rooms, and with private, not 
college, gas and accommodation. 

Fair Plat. 



CRAHAM BROS., 

Sit lasers and Men’s Furnishers, 

SNOBBIEST NECKWEAR IN THE CITY.* 



10 per cent. Discount to Students. 

GRAHAM BROS., 

St. Catherine Street, Opposite Queen’s Hall. 
AGENTS FOR TROY STEAM LAUNDRY. 



TROY STEAM LAUNDRY CO Y, 

140 ST. PETER STREET. 

Our customers find that goods washed by our process wear 
twice as long as those sent to the usual old-fashioned laundries. 

F’CTXSrE: WATER. 

WORK. 

eeoxvXE'X' eeexttee.'S’. 
Special LOW RATES given for families. 

TELEPHONE 666. 

Goods CALLED FOR and PROMPTLY DELIVERED to any 
part of the City or Suburbs, without extra charge. 

Up-town Agency at GRAHAM BROS., St. Catherine Street, opp. Queen’s Hall. 

TUTORING. 

MR. W. B. T. MACAULAY, 

EDINBURGH UNIVERSITY AND HIGH SCHOOL, MONTREAL, 
:o: 

Students fitted for Matriculation into all Faculties of the 
University and for other Examinations. 

2237 ST. CATHERINE ST. 

==) es-cty 

Boots and Shoes, 

Rubbers, Overshoes and Moccasins 

• —AT— 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

SHOE STORES, 

UP TOWN : QUEEN'S HALL BLOCK, 

2243 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 

E. A. COWLEY, 

GENERAL INSURANCE. 

Fire, Life, Accident. 

Associated with THE MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. of N.Y. ; 
THE LONDON ASSURANCE CO., 

And TRAVELERS’ ACCIDENT INSURANCE CO. 

Addrees : 

30 ST. TOTTTT STREET. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



E. & C. GURNEY & CO., 

3S5 <3 z 387 St. Fal-ttx j Steeet, ^v£o£Tt:re.a.Xj. 



STOVES, 

GRATES, 

RANGES, 

SCALES. 



GURNEY’S 



(I elebruteo Hot Water Heutebs 



Cast Bundy Radiators. 



— f Wholesale Manufacturers -5— 




Hot Arc Furnaces 

FOR 

Coal or Wood. 



ALL GOODS GUARANTEED, 



Circulars on Application. 

385 & 387 

St. Paul Street, 

MONTREAL. 



Established 1859. 

HSIiEibTiR-'sr IS. <3rT^^rz m , 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST, 

144 ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STREET, 

Montreal. 

The Dispensing of Physicians* Prescriptions a Specialty. 
Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers sup- 
plied with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 




THE 

GEORGE BISHOP 



£ 



ng^aving 



Pointing 






,ompany. 

169 & 167 ST. JAMES ST , MONTREAL. 



Invitations, Gards, Crests, programmes, 
Jtfonograms, &e., &e. 

IN THE LATEST STYLES. 



Doctors’ and Students’ Headquarters 

— FOR — 




Spiller & Co.’s (London, E.) Du Khedive Extra Fine 
CIGARETTES. 

Lowe & Co.’s THOMPSON PIPES and others. 



Largest and most Complete Stock of CANES in the City. VIRGINIA 
and TURKISH TOBACCOS. 

A. ©EBTH, 

2236 St. Catherine Street, Queen’s Block. 



-Me PHOTOGRAPHY 

For CABINET PHOTOS., go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For COMPOSITION OF GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For all kinds of PHOTOGRAPHY, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S, 

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleury Street. 

SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS 
an d C HEMICAL A PPARATUS. 

a? tfull $todk dog^tkntly op Ski\d, Imported 
Difedt ffoip tl\e I^ekdin^ jdknufkrtufet^ 
of tl^e Wortd. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. 



LYMAN, SONS & CO., 

384 ST. PAUL STREET. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Wm. Notman & Son, 

* * ****************** 

m jfhotographers 

* * *Jr ****************** 

Jfevj -Scale of "Prices this year 
for Students. 



THE GEIVUIIVE 

Oooik’S Friend 
BAKING POWDER 

Is the BEST VALUE in the market, is made from 
the PUREST INGREDIENTS, gives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to the user, and should be pre- 
ferred by all careful housekeepers. Retailed 
everywhere. 



17 BLEURY STREET. 



TELEPHONE No. 580. 




21 2H & 23 St Antoine Street MONTREAL 

T. H. LOVE, Managing Director. 

Our Laundry having been Refitted with the Latest and Most Im- 
proved Machinery, we are now prepared to offer special inducements to 

Families, Hotels, Steamships and Public Intitutions, 

f?J Washin e an< ? Finishing of Goods. Particular attention given to the 
Washing and Dressing of Goods for Shirt and Collar Manufacturers. 
Goods damaged by Water Cleaned and Re-finished to look equal to new 
Lace and other Fine Work carefully Cleaned and Finished. No Chem- 
icals Used and Goods less roughly handled than by the ordinary hand 
work. Special Contracts made, and Tenders for work furnished on 
application. 

GOODS CALLED FOR AND DELIVERED FREE OF CHARGE. 



C. ASHFORD’S 
CHEAP BOOK , STATIONERY, 

AND 

FANCY GOODS SHOP, 

MEDICAL BOOKS, 

Students’ Note Books, Dissecting Cases and Scalpels, 

(BY WEISS & SON,) 

CHEAP FOR CASH. 

Books procured to order from England & the United States 

816 AND 818 DORCHESTER ST., 




1850 and 1852 IT OTRE DAME ST., C OR1TSR ■M-o.rrrr.r. 

The only Strictly First-class 

CLOTHING, FURNISHING, HAT and CAP HOUSE 

IN' THE CITY. 

Carrying Constantly in Stock only First-class 

IREA.ID'Y'-IMI.A.IDIE clothihg, 

Scotch, Irish, English & French Tweeds of our own special importation, for custom orders. 

BEAVERS, CHINCHILLAS, MELTONS -FOR OVERCOATS AND PEA COATS, 

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 

Orders Executed Promptly and Satisfaction Guaranteed. 

CALL and SEE our Stock, and the visit will 



repay you. 




