VOL. I. 



MONTREAL, OCTOBER 27, 1892. 



No. i* 



COIN TE1TTS. 



PAGE 

Editorials 1 

To the Students of the University 2 

Death of Ambition : 3 

Sonnet 3 

Illness of Dr. Ross 3 

Sir Wm. Dawson 3 

Fall of Assyria 3 

To Wordsworth 3 

Sports Night 4 

Subscription Notice 4 

Societies 4 



PAGE 

That Freshman , 6 

McGill Sports 7 

Foot-Ball Notices 

Class Repoi! 



Medicine 

Science 

Law 

Arts 

Comparative Medicine. 

Donalda 

Personals 



fc- 

I 

/ 

6 



fUotttteal : 



PRINTED BY JOHN LOVELL & SON 23 AND 25 ST. NICHOI 





= 



% 

Hot Water, Steam and Sa. 

TO THE 

McGill University Building' 




Royal Victoria Hospital. 



Board of Trade Building 

PLANS and ESTIMATES GIVEN ON APPLICATION. 










FINE AMEES 2 CAN ©UITAMS 

In Oak, Bosewood, Mahogany and Cherry. 

“STEWART” “BAY STATE” and “DOBSON” 



banjos. 

Genuine Italian Uandolinei, 

Best Russian Gut Strings and Everything in the 
Musical Line. 

GEORGE J. SHEPPARD, 

~’ T 6 S* Catherine F«reet. 

o Students. 




FUR LINED COATS, 

FUR CAPS 
AND GAUNTLETS. 



JOHN MARTIN & CO., 

W'ST-PAUL ST., -437 

Montreal, Canada. 

SLACK BEAR, 
CRIZZLY BEAR, 
HUDSON’S BAY WOLF 

• • AND . . 

MUSK OX 
SLEIGH ROBES. 




I 

• • 

I 



WISE professional 
MEN 

BUY their DESKS 



JMialiedi i 85 g. 

G-TUlTT, 

EUTICAL CHEMIST, 

Main Street, MONTREAL. 

ma’ Prescriptions a specialty. 

asaries and Chemical Lecturers supplied with 
deals at. Wholesale prices. Wlia 



otographic Supply. 

PH, 164 St. James St. 

f ADA. SPECIAL BARGAINS. 




i o x r voiding Kodak $57 j 
14x6 “ “ 52 I 

4x6 Hawkeye Roll Holder etc. 26 i 

1 No. 2 Kodak 26 ( 

1 C Daylight Kodak. . .26 < 
1 A " “ 8i 



a good boot, suitable for fall 
nd one that will last well 
. 00 . 

ST3D 8X3 IE, XT. 

, 2243 St. Catherine. 

)RIA STBEET, - . 



and 

BOOK 

CASES 

from 

TEES & CO., 

300 St. James St., Montreal. 

flrlthow our Rates to 
Students are 
H Low, 

* We give them the best ip 

* Portraits, 

Groups, etG. 

W. Notman & Son, 17BlenrySt 



^CGllsIa FORTNIGHTfey. 

VOL. i. MONTREAL, OCTOBER 27, 1892. No. 1 



-^BUSINESS BOARDS- 

H. M. Kinghorn, B.A. (Med. ’gj), Chairman. 

E. J. McIvgr (Arts ’93), Secretary. 

J. Feathbrston (Science *93). Peers Davidson, B.A. (Law *93). 

F. A. Botterell (Donalda *95). Glen Campbell (Comp. Med. ’93). 

^-EDITORIAL BOARDS 

Gordon MacDougall, B.A. (Law ’94), Editor-in-chief. 

W. McKeracher, (Arts ’93). George F. Shaw (Med. ’93). 

A. R. Holden, B.A. (Science ’94). Mabel Lee (Donalda '93). 

Wilfred Plaskett (Comp. Med. ’93). 



The McGill Fortnightly is published every second week during the 
College Session. 

Rejected Communications will not be returned, to which rule no exception 
can be made. 

T he name of the writer must always accompany a communication. 

Address Contributions to Editor-in- Chief, P.O. Box 37. 



INTRODUCTORY. 

In presenting to the students, graduates and well- 
wishers of McGill, the first number of the Fort- 
nightly, the editors feel that a careful statement of the 
events leading up to this re-establishment of a represen- 
tative University Journal, and an explanation as to its 
basis, aims, and ambitions, will not be out of place, and 
at the same time will be well appreciated by those 
disposed to take an interest in its welfare. 

It may be said by way of introduction to those not 
already aware of the fact, that the Fortnightly is 
not the first of the literary ventures undertaken by the 
students of McGill- 

The University Gazette , discontinued for the past 
two years, acted as a forerunner and filled in a credita- 
ble manner, the function required of it, namely to mirror 
the intellectual and literary progress of the University, 
and also to act as a chronicle of College item and class 
report. 

The paper was run by a company which was to have 
been composed of the undergraduates themselves, and 
shares were issued at a moderate price. Difficulties, 
however arose, interest flagged, complaints of various 
natures came in from the different faculties, and finally 
the Directors of the paper ceased its publication. 

Such has been the past history of University jour- 
nalism in McGill, and lack of interest and support both 
financially and otherwise has been the rock on which 
our first publication came to grief. 

For two years therefore, the Students have remained 
without a College journal, and we may safely say that 
to an appreciable extent the different interests of the 
University have consequently suffered. 



Our new Journal The McGill Fortnightly has 
been established on a firmer basis than our predecessor. 

Committees have had the matter under consideration 
for some months past. 

The various difficulties have been by them, we hope, 
successfully surmounted, and the promoters come before 
the Students with a paper properly constituted, a strong 
business directorate, and an editorial board who will at 
least endeavor to fulfil in a creditable manner the 
onerous and responsible task placed before them. 

The management consists of two boards — one of a 
purely business character, and the other having sole 
charge of the Editorial Department. 

Each faculty elects a business manager and an editor 
— one to represent them on the business board and the 
other on the editorial staff. 

“ Class- reporters” have been elected by the various 
years of the different faculties whose duty it shall be 
to canvas for, collect, and hand in to the faculty editors 
all matter intended for publication, and at the same 
time aid such editors in the matter of contribution. 
Such is the machinery provided for by the constitution 
of the paper, and it remains only with the Students 
themselves to make of the Fortnightly the success 
which its promoters hope for and which they have pro- 
per reason to expect. 

Regarding the allotment of space, the editors recog- 
nize the necessity of providing reading matter of a 
varied character and description in order to meet the 
different wants and demands of the several elements 
represented in the University. It is however the inten- 
tion of the Editorial Board to keep the literary standard 
and tone of the paper as high as possible, recognizing 
at the same time and giving full attention to reports 
of the various societies, faculty items, College news, 
exchanges and class reports. 

The hearty co operation, therefore, of each and every 
Student is asked for and expected. Suggestions and 
communications will at all times be most gladly taken 
into consideration by the Board of Management, who 
realize that the success of the paper will consist in the 
satisfaction which it gives to its subscribers. 



We are sorr}^ to have to briefly notice in these 
columns a difference of opinion which seems to have 
arisen between the Second Year Medicine, and the stu- 
dents of the other faculties of the University on the 
subject of what has been known as “ University 
Night.” An examination into the causes of this pecu- 
liar “ split ” is not necessary, as the whole question has 



2 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



already been debated at some length by the different 
Faculties interested, and would only reveal an existing 
state of circumstances incomprehensible to an out- 
sider. 

We are of opinion that if a more generous spirit had 
been shown on the one hand and a more conciliatory 
method on the other, all necessity of Division would 
have been obviated. 

Faculty spirit should never be allowed to run so 
high as to eclipse other feelings for the University’s 
general advancement and welfare. 

Any little difference, however, which may have 
occurred will lead, let us hope, to a more perfect unani- 
mity among the students in the future. 



%o the Students of the Unroersit^. 

One of the first questions to settle, on entering college 
as a student, is the form and amount of exercise to take 
for sound health if he be so fortunate as to start out 
with a good constitution, or to improve his health if it 
be not so good as he could wish. 

11 The man with a first class brain, a third class 
stomach and a fourth class liver is beginning to find out 
that he is not really a strong man.” 

The weak spot will give way when the strain of con 
tinued work comes, for, as Holmes says : — 

“ ’Tis. mighty plain 

That the weakes’ place mus’ stan’ the strain 
’N’ the way t’ fix it uz I maintain 
Is only jest 

T’ make that place uz strong uz the rest.” 

This weakest place for the student is usually the 
digestive system. Why ? 

Firstly, because a sedentary life does not bring into 
action the body trunk, the movements of which act as 
a natural stimulant to the functions of digestion and 
excretion. 

Secondly, because prolonged brain work depletes 
the stomach of blood, and thus delays, if it does not 
arrest, the digestive process, congesting the brain and 
making the head feel hot, dull and heavy. This effectu- 
ally banishes sleep ; you toss about in bed, throw off 
the clothes, and finally get up in despair, and pick up 
a book till from very exhaustion sleep comes at last. 

Thirdly, most men who come to college have been 
accustomed to a certain amount of manual work accom- 
panied by a hearty appetite .satisfied only by a big 
meal. 

This heavy eating is continued from habit after enter- 
ing college ; but now, instead of nourishing the body, 
the excess of food is positively poisonous, for the system 
has to get rid of the superfluity which it cannot burn 
up in its inactive muscles, an undue strain is thus put 
on the excretory organs that they are unable to pro- 
perly stand. 

A fourth year man told me some time ago that the 
only way he could keep himself free from his old enemy, 
dyspepsia, was by regular work in the gymnasium. 
If he stopped it for any length of time the effects began 
to show in a return of his old trouble. He was literally 



being poisoned by undigested food that regular gymnas- 
tic exercises enabled him to use to the best advantage. 

One who has not experienced it can scarcely under- 
stand the ravenous appetite, the warm glow and the 
feeling of fitness felt after an hour’s exercise in which 
is combined work for both arms and legs and trunk, 
short of exhaustion, in quantity, but enough to make 
him feel healthily tired. 

It makes his other work go with a vim and a snap 
that is unknown to the ordinary mortal, and the sleep 
that follows, if not the sleep of the “just,” is at least the 
sleep of the healthy. 

The form and amount of exercise to take varies with 
the man who asks it and his object in presenting the 
question. 

If you are one of that class of men who take naturally 
to athletics, and are physically qualified to take part in 
them safely, then our football and hockey clubs want 
you to don the white jersey and to uphold the honor 
of your Alma Mater on the campus or ice. 

A student loses a great deal of the* pleasure and 
benefit of a college course by keeping aloof from its 
sports. 

Nowhere do men of the various faculties become bet- 
ter known to one another or form such firm friendships 
as on the football field. 

If football does not appeal to you, the annual games 
afford an opportunity to cultivate your speed, strength 
and agility ; but the real benefit is obtained not from the 
contest itself but from the course of preliminary train- 
ing that is necessary if you are to become very proficient. 
There is certain success for the man who is willing to 
practise faithfully and who is determined to excel. 
McGill greatly needs more such men to fill up her foot- 
ball and hockey teams and uphold her athletic reputa- 
tion. 

To those who wish to combine recreation with benefit, 
and without the violence or danger of athletics, I would 
recommend gymnastics. Three hours a week in the 
gymnasium will be found the most profitable invest- 
ment a man can make on ’beginning his college term. 

The course of exercises is designed to bring into action 
the entire muscular system, beginning with the arms in 
the bridge ladder work and ending with the legs and 
feet in vaulting, the barbell and club exercises being 
especially good for the muscles of the trunk. 

An hour’s work there induces a vigorous circulation 
in the muscles with a consequent feeling of warmth 
and comfort all over the body, except the region of the 
stomach, which presents most of the characters of an 
“ aching void.” The first soreness and stiffness soon 
wears off and the hands become hardened and strength- 
ened. 

Every man should determine at the start of a new 
session that, whatever else may go to the wall, the gym- 
nasium shall regularly find him stripped for action and 
hungry for work. 

To those who have any weakness or defect the class 
exercises may be unsuitable ; any such should consult 
the instructor before starting, and thus prevent the 
chance of accident or injury. To those who fancy they 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



3 



have no time to attend gymnasium work, the writer 
would recommend a course of about io or 15 minutes 
every morning and evening, or both, with light 
dumbbells or a barbell, or even without apparatus at 

all. 

This alone may be effectual in keeping the body in 
good condition to digest both your “ daily bread ” and 
that mental pabulum, less material but not less im- 
portant for mental growth, that McGill supplies in such 
quantities and so rich in quality that it requires a well 
nourished and vigorous brain for its proper digestion 
and assimilation. 

R. TAIT McKENZIE, M.D. 

Death of Ambition. 



(AN UNFINISHED SIMILE). 



As some fair swan, of inland seas the pride, 

That trusts her scornful plumage to the tide; 

Down to the ocean with the stream she flows, 

As yet the unshaken mirror of repose. 

But swifter soon the treacherous currents speed ; 
Alarmed, she marks the broader banks recede, 

Looks for the lily that she loved to woo, 

And sees the waters deepen into blue : 

Shrinks from the roughness of the embracing wave, 
And screams a fearful chant, with none to save : 
Then, among tangled seaweed floating high, 

The rash adventurer folds her wings — to die ! 

Geo. Murray. 



Montreal . 



Sonne*. 

I have no temple, heaven-built and diglit 
With orient wealth of pearl aud massy gold ; 

No casket diamonded, whose depths fast hold 
My Deity, cased from the eager sight 
Of vulgar eye ; but in the slumberous night 
I enter, when the vesper bell hath tolled, 

The fane none other knoweth, and I fold 
My hands in prayer, a pious Eremite. 

O Spirit that oft led me where the ways 
Crossed, mossy boles and fields of summer wheat — 
Rill-watered dells all pranckt with crocus-blaze, 

Beneath the paly florets — Spirit sweet, 

It may be at the mystic end of days 
Thou lead thy son before the Paraclete. 

Chas. E. Moyse. 

Bhe lllnezs of 'Boefor’ l^osz. 

We have with sorrow to chronicle the steady de- 
crease in strength of Dr. George Ross, the vice dean 
of the Medical Faculty and professor of Medicine. We 
fear that the class of 1892-93 can scarcely expect to 
listen to the clear and comprehensive course which, 
in former years, it has been the privilege of the Medi- 
cal Students to attend. We" shall yet hope to hear 
that his illness has taken a more favorable turn, and 
that ere long the distinguished professor may again be 
with us. 



Ziv Wim. Dawson. 

We are pleased to note that the venerable Principal 
of the University is now recovering from his late 
severe illness, and that his friends hope he will soon 



be sufficiently strong to stand the fatigues of a jour- 
ney to the South, where, upon the advice of his physi- 
cians Drs. Blackadar, Stewart and Craik, he proposes 
spending the next few’ months. While he will be 
greatly missed in all the Faculties, we trust that this 
trip may speedily result in his complete restoration 
to health. Not only will his absence be felt in the 
lecture room, where for many years he has given to 
the Students the results of his researches and study, 
but still more shall his wise counsels and experience 
be missed at the head of affairs. More than most 
Principals, he has given of his time and energy to pro- 
mote the interests of his University. On more than 
one occasion, when the University was in difficulties, 
he did not hesitate to come to the rescue with help from 
his own private funds, and it is largely owing to his 
fostering care and wise management at many critical 
periods in her growth that McGill has risen from a 
small college to the proud position which she now 
holds. We hope that with renew r ed health he may 
long be able to superintend her continued development 
along the broad line of liberal thought on which he has 
ever been desirous of seeing her advance. 

%hz Dali of Sss^ria. 

(See Ezekiel XXXI, a chapter which Dr. Davidson, in his 
well known work on “ Prophecy,” calls “ the truest and noblest 
monument of Oriental History.”) 

Mighty Assyrian ! in thy glory thou 

Wast like some Cedar on a mountain’s brow ; 

Soaring with beauteous boughs, in lordly pride, 

He loved to fling his shadow far and wide, 

Fair in his greatness, for his root was set 
Where the vast multitude of waters met. 

Beasts of the forest came and hid their young 
Where the tall Cedar’s canopy was hung, 

Wild birds their nests amid his branches made. 

And distant Peoples dwelt beneath his shade, 

Till in God’s Eden every goodly tree 
With envy drooped his stateliness to see. 

Then was he lifted up with fierce disdain, 

And sought in solitary strength to reign ; 

But God looked down, and bade the spoiler’s hand 
Cast the proud boaster from his pleasaut land ; 

They drove him forth in lonely woe to dwell, 

And nations shuddered as the scorner fell ! 

Geo. Murray. 

Montreal. 



Bo tQopdswor*h. 

Like mighty Alp whose base is round beset 
With murmurs from the lips of common men, 

The housewife’s song, the echoes of the glen— 
Shepherds and folds — th’ interminable fret 
Where winding trodden parts run to a net 
Around the market-cross, the shout from fen 
Of childish sporting beyond austere ken, 

The plaintive wail of lover’s flagelet — 

O’er all thou risest to eternal light 
Soft falling upon solitary ways, 

And pilgrim climbing to that Pisgah height 
Scans musingly the land of future days ; 

Grand soul ! thy crest which cleaves th’ aetherial sea 
Stands rooted on thy world — Humanity. 

Chas. E. Moyse. 



4 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



Sports Night. 

The annual day of sports having come to an end, the 
traditionary “night at the theatre ” followed. This 
event, always looked forward to by students and 
friends of the University, passed off most creditably. 
For reasons which cannot here be explained, the 
“ Meds ” formed the large mass of those taking part, 
yet the choruses rendered on the street and in the the- 
atre did not seem to lack anything in volume. Shortly 
before 7 o’clock, the south gate of the University pre- 
sented an animated scene, for nearly three hundred 
students were there. Soon the historic banners of the 
“ Faculty of Medicine ” were waved aloft, and in regu 
lar order followed, two by two, the long procession with 
its choruses, “ horn-blowing ” and college crys. Having 
arrived at the Academy and ascended the steep stair- 
ways leading to the “gods,” cheer after cheer went 
forth as the purple and white banner of “ Bishop’s Col- 
lege ’’ was held aloft fraternally with our own historic 
banner of “ McGill ” Many hearts in the audience grew 
tender when the din and confusion subsided and the 
strains of “ old McGill Alma Mater ” filled the audi- 
torium. Chorus after chorus came, each one rendered 
with due regard to light and shade, reflecting much credit 
upon all concerned. The play “ Joseph ” was of a char- 
acter not quite suited for such an occasion, yet on the 
whole it was fairly well put on, receiving at times well 
merited applause. Miss deWolfe, the leading lady, was the 
recipient of a beautiful bouquet, which was ingeniously 
lowered from the gallery by the Second Year President 
to the stage. She charmingly acknowleged it, and was 
enthusiastically cheered. During the evening Mr. 
Lambly conducted the singing, Messrs. Fry and Fay 
were soloists, Messrs. Jackson and Harwood flutists, and 
Mr. Fairie presided at the piano. Amongst those 
in the audience were noticed professors of the 
University, also instructors and demonstrators, all 
of whom were enthusiastically welcomed. Coming, 
as it does, once a year, the field meeting of the McG. 
A. A. should not only stimulate healthy rivalry among 
the various faculties, but be a strong bond of union 
between them besides. It has been more than once 
suggested by old graduates that it would be a capital 
plan to have an annual university theatre night, when 
graduates, undergraduates and friends of the Univer- 
sity might attend, and enjoy between acts the well 
known songs and choruses of old McGill. Great good 
could only result from such a scheme ; harmony would 
be promoted between the various faculties, the Univer- 
sity esprit de co?ps would be strengthened, and the 
friends of the University would be forcibly reminded 
each year that there “ is nothing the matter with 
old McGill, for She’s all right.” The public is hardly 
aware of the strength and importance of McGill 
University and that she numbers nearly a thousand 
students on her rolls ! Theatre night would give a 
chance to demonstrate her numerical strength in a 
pleasant way. With judicious management, theatre 
night could be made the source of considerable revenue 
to the Students, which might be divided among the 
various college organizations, such as the Athletic 



Association, the Gymnasium, the Musical Association, 
etc., etc. I11 a future issue we shall return to this sub- 
ject, and submit to some extent the details of a scheme 
which will serve the purposes above indicated, also 
devoting some attention to college music. 

All Students are requested to forward Sub- 
scriptions to the business managers of their 
respec’ive Faculties as the proper conduc- 
tion of the 14 Fortnightly ” largely depends on 
the prompt collection of the monies due the 
Board of Management. 

McGill Medical Society, 

A largely attended and thoroughly representative 
meeting of this Society was held on Saturday evening, 
Oct. 8 inst., in the upper reading room of the College, 
when the customary annual address was delivered by 
the new president, Mr. T. A. Dewar, of the final year. 
During the course of the address, Mr. Dewar reviewed 
the history of the Society from its foundation, and 
briefly referred to its early struggles against its great 
enemy “Indifference,” at the same time passing 
eulogies upon those ardent students of the past, by 
whom the Society was kept alive, and whose names 
now adorn the me iical profession. The speaker urged 
those present to keep the torch of scientific enthusiasm 
burning brightly, by evincing new interest in the 
Society, as it now offered to its members many new 
advantages. After the secretary, Mr. J. J. Ross, of the 
3rd year, had read the minutes of the previous meet- 
ing, and other business transacted, the programme 
committee reported that during the session many dis- 
tinguished men would come before the Society with 
original papers, of which due notice would be given. 

Young Men’s Christian Association. 

This Society, ever active for the best interests of the 
students, has begun its work for the session. The 
vacancies caused by the death of the energetic presi- 
dent, Mr. R. M. Campbell, Med. ’94, and the resignation 
of Vice President Hamilton, who remains out of college 
for a year, were filled at the first business meeting, Mr. 
H. W. Goff, B.A., Med. ’92, being elected president, and 
Mr. F. J. Day, Arts ’94. first vice-president. A special 
service in memory of Mr. Campbell was held on Sun- 
day afternoon, 9th inst. Last Sunday a very interest- 
ing talk was given by Dr. Evans, a former president of 
the Association. The usual prayer-meeting on 
Tuesday evening in No. 1 Arts Room has been 
resumed. An excellent little hand-book containing 
much useful information for students, both new and 
old, has been published, and distributed among the dif- 
ferent faculties. An active canvass is being made for 
new members. New men cannot do better than con- 
nect themselves with the Association, which at all 
times receives the hearty support of the students of the 
Faculty. 

The annual reception of the McGill Y. M. C. A., 
tendered to the students of the several faculties, took 
place on Tuesday evening, 18th inst. 

It proved the most successful in the history of the 
Association. The corridors presented a bright and 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



5 



cheering appearance, having been tastefully decorated 
for the occasion. About a thousand invitations were 
issued, and most of them must have been accepted. 
Short addresses were delivered by Pres. H. M. Goff, 
B.A. (Med. ’93), Dr. Johnson and Rev. Prof. Warriner. 
F. M. Fry (Med ’94), sang a solo. An excellent or- 
chestra enlivened the proceedings at intervals through 
out the evening. The unprecedented success of this 
gathering was no doubt due in a large measure to the 
interest taken in the entertainment by members of the 
Donalda department who were present in large num- 
bers, and also played an important part in providing 
decorations and in looking after the refreshments. 

Undergraduates’ Literary Society. 

The Literary Society held its first meeting on Sept- 
30th. The following were elected officers for the ses- 
sion : — W. Donahue, president ; 1st and 2nd vice-presi- 
dents, F. H. Graham and J. C- Watt ; treasurer, F. 
Lambert ; secretary, H. A. Honeyman ; assistant 
secretary, W. G. G. Cole ; programme committee, J. A. 
McPhail, C. Mansur, G. D. Ireland, W. C. Sutherland, 
J. E. Robertson. These gentlemen possess in a high 
degree the qualities which are necessary for the success 
of the Society, from the grace of the chairman to the 
discrimination of the programme committee. 

The second meeting was held on the evening of 
Friday, Oct. 17th. Mr. Townsend read a long but 
able and interesting essay on Tennyson’s Princess . 
Mr. Day followed with a song in his usual captivating 
style. But then came the event of the evening, the 
debate upon the resolution that the Philosophy Honor 
Course is preferable to the English Honor Course, 
a resolution which is certainly debatable. It was 
upheld by Messrs. J. Brown, J. W. A. Hickson 
and A. Graham, and opposed by Messrs. Mclver, Mac- 
Keracher and S. M. Dickson. The negative had the 
advantage in breadth of treatment and eloquence of 
expression, but the decision of the meeting showed too 
well that it had been outdone in subtlety and persis- 
tency of argument. This was to be expected. The meet- 
ing adjourned at eleven o’clock. Although the hour 
was so late, all went away well pleased from the largest 
meeting of the Literary Society which has been known 
for some years. 

The next meeting was held on the evening of Satur- 
day, Oct. 15th. The attendance was not so good as at 
the previous meeting, and although Mr. Dresser pre- 
sided perfectly well, there was an irregularity, and the 
pleasant face of the chairman was missed. But “ Billy ” 
had been very busy with the Brits that afternoon. 

The programme opened with a reading from Mackay 
Edgar, who sufficiently showed that he had not for- 
gotten Mr. Andrew’s teaching. Mr. David Davis 
then read an essay on Scott, short and comprehensive, 
excellent both in subject matter and manner of expres- 
sion. After a song by Mr. Muir, the debate opened. 
Resolved, that Capital Punishment is justifiable. The 
speakers for the affirmative side were Messrs. Gurd, 
Ireland and Mullen ; and for the negative side Messrs. 
Mahaffy, Watt and Robertson. All did themselves 
credit ; and the new men attracted attention. I11 Mr- 



Mullen’s case, it is becoming recognized by his fellows 
that his ability as a debater is only one of many 
attainments. The speech of Mr. Jas. Brown, the 
critic for the evening, was characterized by his cus- 
tomary precision and force. The vote of the meeting, 
according to the arguments advanced, declared that it 
considered Capital Punishment justifiable, thereby sup- 
porting the decision of the Shamrocks, so gloriously 
demonstrated a few hours before. 

To the great delight of the Society, Mr.S- Carmichael, 
formerly one of our most active members, found time 
to attend both of these meetings. At the former he 
acted as critic. 

The Society was never in a condition so flourish- 
ing as that in which it is at present. 

Delta Sigma Society. 

The annual business meeting of the Delta Sigma 
Society was held on Thursday, Sept. 29th. Owing to 
the absence of the retiring secretary, the reading of the 
report was postponed until the next meeting of the 
Society. Officers for the ensuing year were elected as 
follows : — President, Miss James ; Vice-President, Miss 
Brown ; Secretary-Treasurer, Miss Travis ; Asst. Sec- 
Treasurer, Miss Pitcher. 

The first regular meeting of the Society took place on 
October the 13th, the President in the chair. New 
members were enrolled, the annual report read and 
approved, and there followed a discussion on the 
question of the annual lecture. It was unanimously 
agreed that Professor Moyse should be requested to 
deliver the fourth of this series in the Molson Hall on 
the occasion of the last meeting of the Society this ses- 
sion. 

A lively discussion ensued as to the advisability of 
renewing the office of critic at the monthly debates. It 
was decided in favor of retaining this functionary, the 
opinion of the members being, that the knowledge of 
ensuing criticism would have a salutary effect upon 
those debating, warning them to avoid fallacies and 
inaccuracies, as well as all unauthenticated statements. 

Miss Gertrude Seymour followed with an essay on 
the “ Legends of Canada.” Appropriate readings were 
here introduced, which embodied man}" amusing, as 
\^11 as pathetic tales of the earlier settlement of 
Canada. 

Young Women’s Christian Association. 

This Society has been founded to satisfy the gradually 
increasing wants of the students, it being found that 
such a society as the old Theo Dora, purely mission 
ary in its aim, was on too narrow a footing for the 
work now required among the ladies. 

Devotional meetings are held by the Society every 
Tuesday afternoon at 5 o’clock- All ladies are welcome 
to attend these meetings. 

Donalda Y. W. C. A. 

On the last day of the month of September, it was 
our privilege to attend a charming entertainment 



6 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



given by the officers and members of the Donalda Y. 
W. C. A. The object was to welcome to old McGill, 
and this society, all new comers, thus affording them 
an opportunity of becoming better acquainted with 
each other, and with those enviable beings who have 
but a dim recollection of having once been “ green 
and fresh in this old world.’* 

Mr. Lafleur kindly lectured in his own class room, 
thereby leaving class room No. 2 free for the transfor- 
mation scene. At 2 p.m. the door of said class room 
closed upon desks, black-board, and ink stained floors, 
opening at 5 p.m. to disclose a unique drawing-room, 
carpeted with soft rugs, and made home like by the 
addition of easy chairs, five o’clock tea tables, portieres, 
pretty drapes and numerous small nothings which girls 
delight to gather about them. 

Flowers and foliage plants were artistically displayed, 
and the gracious welcome of our president, Miss Hunt, 
completed a picture which opened up a new feature of 
the tout ensemble of college life. One or two features 
of the entertainment were new to us, delicious sand- 
wiches were bound by a narrow band of scarlet ribbon, 
so in an unobtrusive way do we honor our colors, cake, 
fruit and bonbons were served from delicate chip baskets, 
picturesquely adorned with smilax, ferns and leaves 
It was whispered that Miss E. Radford and Miss Mac 
Kenzie, assisted by a few willing hands, had acted the 
part of fairies ; but since fairies have the knack of evad- 
ing pursuit nothing definite could be ascertained. 

Music made a delightful break in the merry chatter 
of the hour. Miss A. Radford, answering to an encore 
for a charming French “ chanson.” Miss E- Reid and 
Miss F. Botterel followed with selections as fittingly 
chosen. Miss Whiteaves recited with great expres- 
siveness “ a Legend of Bregens.” 

Towards the close of the entertainment Miss Hunt 
took up a somewhat isolated position in one corner of 
her impromptu drawing-room, and, by the dauntless 
courage which eye and prose bespoke, commanded 
attention. Her words were to the point — giving an 
outline of the work undertaken by the society ; she 
closed with a cordial invitation to all Students to help, 
assuring them of a kindly welcome from every member. 

%hz ‘FDontoeal 'Qzterinavp ‘TlSedieal 
Szzoeiafion. 

This Society held its eighteenth annual meeting iff 
the lecture room of the Faculty of Comparative Medi- 
cine on Thursday evening, October 13th. 

The business of the meeting was the election of 
officers for the session of 1892-93 and the nomination 
of new members. The following are the officers for the 
session : — 

Dr. D. McEachran, Honorary President. 

Dr. Wesley Mills, President. 

Dr. M. C. Baker, 1st Vice-President. 

Dr. C. McEachran, 2nd Vice-President 
Mr- O. G. Orr, Secretary-Treasurer. 

Mr. W. S. Plaskett, Librarian. 

Dr. Mills on taking the chair thanked the Association 
for the honor conferred, showing his appreciation of 



the same and the interest he took in the Society and 
its work by the enthusiastic address, which he delivered 
in his usual unappro aeliable style. He pointed out, 
among other things, that the social and intellectual 
future of a man depended on his present application to 
duties, and that societies of this kind did more to cul- 
tivate and fit a man for this future than anything else. 
He emphasized the necessity of attending all meetings 
and entering into the discussions. As the profession of 
veterinary medicine is daily growing, the character of 
the papers read must improve with it. He asked the 
members who had papers to write to be more original 
than in the past. 

The Honorary President, the Dean of the Faculty, 
then added some well chosen remarks. He advised the 
members to bring some of their personal friends to the 
meetings, as this would tend to form a correct impres- 
sion of the high standing of the profession. 

The next meeting will be held on Thursday, October 
27th, when the candidates nominated will be balloted 
for. 

Mr. Denny will read a paper on Antiseptics, and Mr. 
Lamb report a case of fistula. 

%hz 2oeief2 * 01S Sfudg of 0 omparafive 
IPzgeholog^. 

The above Society held its annual meeting for election 
of officers in the lecture room of the Faculty of Compa- 
rative Medicine 011 Thursday the 13th inst. The Pre- 
sident, Dr. Wesley Mills, occupied the chair. 

Officers for the ensuiug session are as follows : 

Dr. D. McEachran, Honorary President. 

Dr. Wesley Mills, President. 

Dr. M. C. Baker, 1st Vice-President. 

Mr. Brainerd, 2nd Vice-President. 

Mr. Sturrock, Secretary-Treasurer. 

Mr. Ewing, Corresponding Secretary. 

This Society— which is the only one in existence— has 
for its principal object the study of the psychical aspect 
of the mind of the lower animals, and to correct the 
erroneous prevailing impression among the laity that 
our “ poor relations ” are destitute of even the germs of 
psychical power. The scientific world of late years 
have paid considerable attention to the subject, and have 
agreed that the distinction between the psychical power 
of man and his closer relations is one of degree rather 
than kind. 



‘CEhai 1 ‘E'rezhman. 

I’m a scholar of renown in my little country town ; 

I’m a man of most inimitable parts ; 

I am fit for any Faculty, I would just as soon have tackled 
Course in Medicine, or Science, as in Arts. 

Chorus. 

I’m the acme of ability, solve all questions with facility ; 

In my brains the fruits of knowledge bloom aud grow j 
And, whatever I may light on, I’m an admirable Crichton : 

I’m a I’m a blooming Freshman, don’t you know? 

I see Chemistry right through, and Geology and Zoo. ; 

Huxley’s all a hoax and Darwin doesn’t wear 

Think you I’ll be plucked in Botany?— on the Faculty there’ 
not any 

Man with me in Science studies can compare. 

Chorus • 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



There is no one learned more in the ancient classic lore ; 

Plato, Homer, and the plays, I reckon good ; 

But, according to my dad’s tone, I don’t equal Mr. Gladstone 
In Theology and Greek and chopping wood. 

Chorus . 

I’ve read Richter, Schiller, Kant, all the German works extant ; 

Wolf to me is quite as tame as any lamb ; 

And in Hebrew, I’m a genius, — I have struggled with Gesenius, 
And I’ll strike a dagesh-forty on exam. 

Chorus. 

I can steer my way through Hume, Hartley’s haze, and Berkley’s 
spume ; 

On the sea of thought my sail is long unfurled ; 

And my father knows philosophy, and he felt ’twould be a loss 
if he 

Didn’t let me give my wisdom to the world. 

Chorus . 

Mathematics is a go, all the Algebra I know, 

Trigonometry I studied for a year ; 

But my fort is English literature, and I hold that I am fitter at 
your 

Age to lecture in the same than you to hear. 

Choi us. 

I’ve read Shelley through, and Scott, Moore and Byron too — you 
ought, 

And for Southey’s epic poems saved my pelf ; 

And I spent my hoarded pennies on all the latest rhymes of 
Tennyson ; 

And I write a little poetry myself. 

Chorus. 

I admit Professor Smith is^i prosateur of pith ; 

Just at preseut he and Justin lead the rank : 

But the finest pen of all, a classic style had Lord Macaulay — 

I’ve decided Matthew Arnold was a crank. 

Chorus. 

I’m an orator, no mistake, — so, I think, is Mr. Blake, — 

/know how to handle metaphor and trope : 

Ah ! won’t / win notoriety in the Literary Society ! 

And my class will make me President, I hope. 

Chorus. 

Cap’n. Goun. 



TBe&ill Uni^ersit^ Annual Sport. 

The annual games'of the Association were held on 
Friday the 21st instant, and were a great success in 
point of the numbers of the spectators, and the magni- 
ficence of the weather. The entries for the different 
events were, however, below the average, although the 
work done was in many cases equal if not superior to 
older established records. The officers and committee 
of the Association deserve the sincere thanks of the 
Students at large. Their task— an onerous one— 
was well filled and to the satisfaction of all. 

The following are the officers and committee of the 
McGill University Athletic Association, on whom the 
success of the games depended : — 

Hon. president, Sir J. W. Dawson, LL-D., F.R.S. ; 
president, D. Hamilton, Med.; vice-president, A. S. 
Cleaves, Comp. Med. ; secretary, J. A. Cameron, Law ; 
hon.-treasurer, Prof. B. J. Harrigton, B.A-, Ph.D. ; 
treasurer, H. M. Jaques, Med. 

Committee : Arts — H. M. Killaly and J. C. Hick- 



son; Law — A. R. Johnson, B.A., and G. W. Mac- 
Dougall, B.A. ; Medicine — J. D. Cameron and J. Tees, 
B.A. ; Applied Science — J. Featherston and H. C. 
Baker ; Comp. Med. — G. Campbell and S. Thayer ; 
Theology— D. Guthrie, B.A., R. O. Ross, BA., and J. 
Leach. 

The following are the results of the various events ^ 
Kicking football — 1, G. H. Matliewson, 168 ft. 5)4 
in. ; 2, H. B. Yates, 151 ft. 8 in. Record broken. 

Throwing hammer (16 lbs.) — 1, Baskin, 61 ft. ; 2 r 
J. T. Whyte, 60 ft. 4 in. 

Running broad jump — 1, Murphy, 18 ft. 8 in. ; 2, 
Milburne, 18 ft. 7 in. 

Throwing heavy weight (56 lbs.) — 1. Baskin, 21 ft. 
5 ^ in. ; 2, J. T. Whyte, 16 ft. 7 in. Record broken. 

Throwing cricket ball- t, Boucher, 284 ft. 6 in.; 2, 
Wood, 281 ft. 10 in. 

Standing broad jump — 1, Milburne, 9ft. 11 in.; 2, 
Murphy, 9 ft. 7)4 in. 

Hurdle race (first heat) — 1, J. T. Whyte, 20 sec. ; 2, 
J. Brown. 

Hurdle race (second heat) — 1, Milburne, 20 sec. ; 2, 
Mclvor. 

Hurdle race (third heat) — J. Brown, 1 ; Mclvor, 2, 
Time 20 sec. 

Putting shot (16 lbs.) — 1, Knapp, 32 ft. io)4 in. ; 2, 
J. D. Cameron, 32 ft. 

Tug of war (first pull) : 

Medicine . A rts. 



Baskin, 

Hamilton, 

Hart, 

Ross, 

Barclay, 

Hamilton, 

J. McCrae, Capt. 



J. S. Gordon, 
Ireland, 
Gordon, 
McGregor, 
Bucker, 
Brown, 

J. Gunn, Capt. 



Arts got the drop, and maintained what they thus, 
won, 3 inches. 



Comparative Medicine . 
Tracy, 

Orr, 

Ewing, 
Cleaves, S., 
McAlpin, 
Moody. 



Science . 
Stevenson, 
McDougall, 
Olive, 

Huntingdon, 

William, 

Johnston. 



Comparative medicine, won by 1 % inches. 

High jump— 1, Kilally, 5 ft. 3 in.; 2, Deardin, St. 
Francis College, 5 ft. 2 in. 

In a subsequent jump Kilally cleared 5 ft. 6)^ 
inches, thus beating the college record by y of an 
inch. 

100 yards (first heat) — 1, Balfour; 2, Blackburn. 
Time, n 2-5 sec. 

100 yards (second heat) — 1, Deardin; 2, Milburne. 
Time, 11 2-5. 

100 yards, final— 1, Balfour; 2 Blackburn. Time, 
hi- sec. 

880 yards run — F. M. Fry, 2 min. 26 sec. ; 2, Cowan. 
One mile bicycle — 1, Edwards; 2, Bishop. Time, 
3*20 3-5- 



8 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Hurdle race, final — i, J. Brown. Time, 19 4-5 sec. ; 
White and Milburne, dead heat. There was practically 
no difference between the three, as they rose over 
every hurdle together. Brown finished just a trifle 
ahead. White won second place in the run over. 

Tug-of-war, final — 1, Arts, by 1% in. 

440 yards run — 1, Tees ; 2, Fry. Time, 55 4-5 sec. 

Sack race — 1, Cowan ; Bishop and Baker tied for 
second place. The race was decided by the turn of a 
coin. Baker winning. 

Pole leap— 1, Milburne, 9 ft. g }4 in. ; 2, Murphy, 9 
ft 22 in. Record broken. 

One mile run — 1, Bickerdike ; 2, Greig. Time, 4 
min. 59 sec. 

220 yards run — 1, Tees, 24 2-5 sec. ; 2, Olive. 

One mile walk — 1, G. Robins, time 8 min. 13 sec. ; 
2, J. Bron. Record broken. 

McGill University Records. 

Below will be found the records made by the McGill 
men during the past eight years complete up to date : 

Kicking the football — G. H. Mathewson, 168 feet 
S /4 inches. 

Throwing the cricket ball — C. Ault, 108 yards 11 
inches. 

Putting the shot, 16 lbs -Thompson, 34 feet )4 inch. 

Throwing heavy weight, 56 lbs. — Baskin, 21 feet sA 
inches. 

Throwing the hammer, 16 lbs. — N. Watson, 76 feet 
9 inches. 

Standing broad jump — Springle, 9 feet ii l / 2 inches. 

Running broad jump— Jacquays, 19 feet 9 inches. 

Running high jump— Kilally, 5 feet 6 % inches. 

Pole leap — Milburn, 9 feet 9 )4 inches. 

One mile bicycle — Williams, 3 min. 21^ sec. 

One mile run — McTaggart, 4 min. 54^ sec. 

One-lialf mile run — McTaggart, 2 min. 7 sec. 

440 yards run — Hutchinson, 55^ sec. 

220 yards run — Clerk, 2\)4 sec. 

100 yards run — Kennedy, 10 2-5 sec. 

120 yards hurdle — No authentic record, as far as 
kept, Connolly, 19^2 sec. 

One mile walk— Robins, 8 min. 13^ sec. 

The records that were broken yesterday were kick- 
ing the football 1 60 feet, made by P. Robertson ; 
throwing heavy weight 20 feet 4 % inches, made by 
Kentschell ; high jump, 5 feet 6 inches, made by 
McKenzie ; pole leap, 9 feet, made by Harrison ; one 
mile walk, 8 min. 15 sec., made by Swaby. 



Quebec Rugby Foot Ball Union. 



SCHEDULE OF GAMES 1S92. 



SENIOR. 

Won by Score. 

Oct. 1. Montreal vs. Britannia. Britannia Gr’ds Montreal, 11.4 
“ 8. McGill VS. Montreal.. McGill “ Montreal, 11.7 

" 15. McGill vs. Britannia-. <4 cc Britannia, 8.5 

“ 22. Britannia vs. Montreal.. Montreal “ Montreal, 22.12 

“ 29. McGill vs. Montreal.. “ cc 
Nov. 5. McGill vs. Britannia.. Britannia “ 



INTERMEDIATE. 

Oct. 8. Montreal vs. Britannia.. Britannia Gr’ds Montreal, 23.0 
“ 8. Quebec vs ■ Len’xvi’le.Len’xvi’e “ Quebec, 18.12 

“ 15. Montreal vs. McGill .... Montreal “ McGill, 12.4 

0 15. Britannia vs. Lennoxv’e.Len’xvi’e “ Len’xv’e, 33.0 

“ 22. Montreal vs. Quebec .... Quebec (t Quebec, 310 

“ 22. McGill vs. Lennox v’e. McGill “ McGill, 48.2 

" 29. McGill vs. Britannia.. “ “ 

Nov. 3. Britannia vs. Quebec. ... Britannia “ 

“ 5. Montreal vs. Lennoxv’e. Montreal l< 

i( 5. McGill vs. Quebec. . ..Quebec “ 



junior . 

Oct. 1. McGill vs. Montreal . . McGill Gr’ds McGill, 21.0 
“ 8. Montreal vs. Britannia.. Montreal “ Montreal, 33 o 

“ 15. Bricannia vs. McGill .... Britannia u Britannia, 4.2 

“ 22. Britannia vs. Montreal. . Britannia €l Montreal, 16.4 

Nov. 5. McGill vs. Britannia.. McGill “ 

“ 12. Montreal vs. McGill Montreal “ 



Medical Class Reports. 

On Tuesday the lower* Lecture-room at McGill was 
the scene of a closely-contested election. The Fourth 
3 ? ear men held their annual meeting for the purpose of 
filling the offices of President, Secretary and Class 
Reporter. It was well known for some time previously 
that two candidates were running for presidency, viz., 
Messrs. Bostwick and Aylen. Both men are very 
popular, and the even distribution of the votes gave rise 
to much excitement. Mr. Carroll occupied the chair. 
At first it was announced that the vote had resulted in 
a tie, and a recount was demanded. The recount 
showed : — 

Mr. Bostwick, 30. 

Mr. Aylen, 28. 

For the office of Secretary, Messrs. Cooper and Mc- 
Morrine were proposed, Mr. Cooper being elected. Mr. 
Phillimore was chosen Class-Reporter. 

One thing may be said, that although the elections 
were keenly contested, there was a marked absence of 
anything approaching ill-feeling. 



When the “ Students 1 Jemmie ” rises before the Class 
in the Theatre of the Hospital, and scans the assembled 
students, every man becomes instantly absorbed in his 
note-book. When the unhappy victim has been sum- 
moned to tell all he knows, and a great deal more that 
he doesn’t know, the remainder of the class gives utter- 
ance to a prolonged sigh of relief. 



If I remember my French lessons rightty, 
Though I admit I was stupid and lazy, 
La fleur is the French for a flower , 

And Dr. Lafleur is a daisy ! 



Dr. Ruttan, who always takes a vast interest in McGill 
College Athletic Sports, has recently given the Meds 

a handsome notice-board for the posting of Athletic 
notices only. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



9 



For the convenience of Students attending the Gen- 
eral Hospital the lectures are now given at the college 
in the morning, thus saving much unnecessary walking 
to and fro the Hospital. 

* * * * * 

Indignation sits upon the noble brow of the Immor- 
tal Cook. Formerly the hour for closing each lecture 
was announced by the ringing of a time-honored bell 
which has survived many generations of medical stu- 
dents. And now the modern improvements of the city 
of Montreal have stepped into McGill. Cook’s bell, with 
the horse-cars, is to be relegated to the past ! Electrical 
gongs have been placed in the various Departments, 
and their deep, discordant “clangs” re-echo through 
the corridors of old McGill. “ Them science fellows 
are playin’ the deuce,’ ’ exclaims the revered and con- 
servative janitor, “ I shan’t know soon where my Col- 
lege has gong to !” 

***** 

Rumor hath it that one of the Final Year Medicine 
is about to write an Ode to a Dollar Bill,” commen- 
cing— 

“ I saw it but a moment — 

That crisp one dollar bill !” 

***** 

There is a large attendance of Third year men at the 
Fourth year lectures. This is the beginning of the ses- 
sion. “ A new broom sweeps clean.” 

* * * * * 

An interesting anatomical item recently appeared in 
the Montreal Gazette . Here is an extract : — 

“ Montreal appears to have a small-sized man with a 
large oesophagus and an unusually developed vermiform 

appendage who stored away somewhere in the 

recesses of his interior ten dozen and three large sized 
malpecques.” 

***** 

Yes, -the appendix must have been pretty well devel- 
oped, and the man who performed the feat would pose 
better as an anatomical curiosity than as the amateur 
record holder for the consumption of oysters. 



Doctor Roddick’s genial presence in the theatre and 
wards of the Montreal General Hospital always 
reminds the student that old McGill still rules, for 
indeed one cannot think of McGill without thinking of 
Dr. Roddick, nor the reverse. His recent operation 
for removal of a portion of the lower jaw has called 
forth many encomiums of praise. Every move was 
marked by that calmness and decision which only 
comes from long experience and careful observation. 

The graduates and nurses ot the M.G.H. have issued 
cards for an “At Home” to be held in the Victoria 
Armory, on Tuesday evening, Nov. ist. 



Mr. Robert M. Campbell, of Medicine ’94, died on the 
28th of August last, after a prolonged and very trying 
illness. The loss of Mr. Campbell will not only be 
felt by a wide circle of friends but also by the various 
organizations of the University in which he took an . 
enthusiastic interest, and more especially by the Uni- 
versity Young Men’s Christian Association, of which 
he had been elected President for this session. 



The election of officers for the 3rd year Medicine 
resulted as follows : — President, H. E. York ; secre- 
tary, Mr. James Pritchard, B.A. ; Class reporter, 
Harry S. Shaw. 



Dissecting has begun early this session, material 
appearing as early as the 6th. 



O ye Freshmen, ye are a cheeky set. We have 
beheld you passing up many times and have oft listed to 
your loud talking in the dissecting room. Ye’d better 
lie low. 



The senior class in Practical Physiology has been 
divided, one division meeting on Friday, the other on 
Saturday. The class numbers over one hundred. 



Is your name Church ? 



Wanted : to rent or borrow a pipe (smoking pipe), 
for use evenings in the dissecting room. Tobacco may 
accompany pipe. Leave pipe with Cook or N. Mc- 
Kinnon. 



Cook to Freshman : “Where is the chump you dissect 
with ? ” 1 



John Gleason is obliged to be out of town Saturday 
and Sunday of each week. He has charge of a drug 
store at Cowansville. 



We are glad to welcome to the Second Year, Mr. 
Quain of Trinity and Mr. Russell of Laval University. 



At a class-meeting of the Second Year, F. Johnstone 
was elected president and A. V. McGannon, secretary. 



Freshmen in Medicine number about 90, including 
dental students. They pull well together, and so far 
there are no splits. 



Officers are elected pro tem only, the fellows thinking 
it best not to be too familiar on so short acquain- 
tance. The election for permanent officers will take 
place shortly. 



Plucking of Innocents has just begun in the Dissec- 
ting Room. 



lO 



MCGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Science Jottings. 

Three cases of new chemical apparatus arrived 
recently from Germany, to be added to the all-ready 
splendidly equipped laboratories of the Third and 
Fourth years. A great deal is intended for organic 
analysis, and will replace tedious methods, hitherto 
taking up much valuable time, by quicker and more 
complete forms. A large number of laboratory requis- 
ites were also contained in the boxes, so as to enable 
the work of the various years to proceed in the most 
approved manner. 

The Second and Third years in Chemistry and 
Mining do not appreciate the presence of the all-per- 
vading freshmen in their laboratory, compelled by the 
increased number of students and inefficiency of the 
First year laboratory : but with the present state of 
things it cannot be avoided, 

Dr. Harrington is having more time this year for 
work in his own laboratory owing to the Second and 
Third years Chemistry and Mining and the Class in 
Determinative Mineralogy being placed under the 
guidance of Mr. Nevil N. Evans. 

A new sulphuretted hydrogen generator, of larger 
dimensions than the one now in use, is being made 
for the Second and Third year laboratory under the 
direction of Mr. Evans, and will be a present from Mr. 
Milton L- Hersey, chemist of the C.P.R. The appara- 
tus will be of great benefit, as every former Chemistry 
student can readily perceive. 

Van B. finds a partial outlet for his superabundant 
energy in vigorously chaining along tie-lines, etc. So 
swiftly does he move that his fellow-laborers can with 
difficulty be persuaded to take the other end of his 
chain. 



At the Sports, a number of Undergrads, were seen to 
be sporting artistic bows of steel grey and blue ribbons, 
which turn out to be the class colors of Applied Science 
’94, who hope that this, the first step in this direction, 
will receive general approval. 



It is currently reported that Prof. Tr-ss-d r of the 
Workman Building has become a freshman in Arts 
through taking the course in Chemistry. 



We learn that the highly ornamental white ribbon 
worn on the cap of a certain instructor in the work- 
shops is an official badge of office and not merely due 
to the aesthetic taste of the wearer. 



At a general meeting of Applied Science, the feeling 
was strongly in favor of a University pin rather than 
separate Faculty pins, though some of the years intend 
to have class pins before they graduate. 



A prominent feature of the daily surveying excursion 
is A — th’s lanky form, seen to the greatest advantage 
when side by side with a 15 foot surveyor’s rod. 



The election of class officers for 1892-93 in the 
different years in the Faculty of Applied Science has 
resulted as follows : — 

4th Year: Pres., J. A. McPhail. 

Vice-Pres., W. P. Lawrie. 

Sec.-Treas., W. Bowden. 

3rd Year: Pres., A. R. Holden. 

Vice-Pres., W. A. Duff. 

Sec.-Treas., R. A. Gunn. 

2nd Year : Pres., W- Angus. 

Vice-Pres , F. A. Wilkins. 

Sec.-Treas., G. McDougall. 

1st Year: Pres., G. Alley. 

Vice-Pres., R Balfour. 

Sec.-Treas., A. Purves. 



The Science freshmen seem a very meek assortment. 
The 2nd year are waiting with commendable patience 
for hostile demonstrations and have even gently en- 
deavored to stimulate such by capturing and elevating 
a few of the freshies but as yet without result. 



Now that the Faculty of Applied Science has build- 
ings for its exclusive use, the Students have inaugur- 
ated an Applied Science Reading Room, a cozy and 
very convenient room having been set aside by the 
Faculty for that purpose. 

The Committee from the various years having charge 
of the Room consists of : — 

T. McLeod, ’93,* Chairman 
L- Herdt, ’93 
J. K. Henry, B.A., ’94 
A. A. Cole, B.A., ’94 
F. A. Wilkins, ’95 
H. Jones, ’96 

who have gathered together a select but varied assort- 
ment of the most popular monthlies and weeklies, besides 
the leading dailies from most of the large towns that 
send students to McGill. 



The Applied Science Glee Club has opened its first 
year of active work, under favorable auspices, and looks 
forward to a profitable session’s work. 

• The weekly practices, held in the top floor of the 
Technical Building, are thorcughly enjoyed by the 
members, and, under the leadership of the talented 
conductor, Mr. Price, should be of great musical value 
to those attending. 

The officers and committee are as follows : — 

Hon. Pres., Dr. B. J. Harrington. 

Hon. Treas., Mr. N. N. Evans, M.Ap.Sc. 
President, J. H. Featherston, ’93 
Vice-Pres., W. R. Askwith, ’95 
Secretary, A. R. Holden, ’94 

Treasurer, J. A. Burns, ’93 • 

H. D. Herdt, ’93 
J. H. Lar month, ,94 
F. M. Becket, ’95 
S. McBean, ’96 

The Club expect to give a concert next February, 
and are asking for the cordial assistance of all the 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



1 1 



Science students, that they may do honor to their Alma 
Mater and their Faculty. 



We were pleased to see J. G. H. Purves, Ap. Sc. ’92 
about the buildings last week while on a short visit to 
the city. He is at present engaged at the Sydney 
Mines. 



The Artsmen have a wide reputation for the word 
“push" on their frontdoor. We suggest that they 
now substitute the word “pull" 



Science not disheartened. 

The morning following the sports a number men 
were seen pulling a horse and roller about the football 
field in spite of the efforts of the horse to pull the other 
way. 

We learned on enquiry that they were science men 
practising for next year's tug-of-war. 



Q. Why did Mac u pJiail" to see a Peyasi cross the 
meridian after his long and intent observation on Tues- 
day night ? A. Because he tried to view her through an 
opaque metal shutter in the observatory roof, which a 
way had interposed between his line of vision and 
heaven’s dome. 



What’s the matter with the smoking room of the 
Third Year Science, where the merry tale goes round 
while they rest from their labors. 



Professor — Every breath you draw is an inspiration. 
Delighted junior — Does that hold good during 
exams ? 



Prof, putting a slide under the microscope. — Here 
are some nice epithelial scales from the inside of my 
cheek, examine them carefully and tell me what you 
think they look like. 

Unthinking student — Metal disks, sir. 

Exit student. 



The Students in Law may now be considered as 
fairly settled down to hard professional work both in 
the office and lecture room. 

The session opened on the 2nd of September last, 
several weeks before the other Faculties, and lectures, 
have since been kept up with a regularity alarming to 
those whom necessity or intention forces to be absent. 

First year registrations are larger than ever, and 
embody a strong Ottawa contingent. 

Keen competition is looked for in the first year 
scholarships. 

The election of Faculty Officers resulted as follows : — 

President, Aime Geoffrion ; Vice-President, Gordon 
MacDougall, B.A. ; Secretary-Treasurer, Win. Patter- 
son, B.A. 



The Faculty Moot. Court, for the trial of fictitious 
cases, has also been resumed. Choice of officers resulted 
as follows : — 

President, A. R. Johnson, BA. ; Secretary -Treasurer, 
L- G. Glass ; Committee, R. B. Hutchison, A. G Jones, 
S. Carmichael. 

Prof. Geoffrion, Q.C., has kindly consented to act as 
judge at the first meeting of the Court and has 
submitted the following case for the consideration of 
counsel — 

A (creditor) is a creditor of B (insolvent) for $10,00 
and has a mortgage for his claim on real estate sold to 
C {tiers- detent eur) who has paid his purchase-price in 
full. 

The claim of A (creditor) is further secured by a 
surety (D) ; B is an insolvent. A (creditor) has taken^ 
an hypothecary action against C for his claim. D 
(surety) who has made a legal tender to A for the full 
amount of his claim in capital, interest and costs before 
any plea filed by defendant C ( tie>s detenteur) inter- 
venes, makes a deposit (consignation) of the amount 
tendered and asks to be subrogated to A (creditor) and 
continue his action against C ( ticrs-detcnteur ). 

C ( tiers-detenteur ) on the hypothecary action served 
upon him, files a declaration of his readiness to pay the 
amount of the mortgage, and also makes a consignation 
requesting subrogation to the rights of A (creditor). 
The Attorneys of A, C and D are invited to complete 
the issues and submit the case. 

For Plaintiff, C- W. Harwood & W. Walsh. 

For Defendant, F. J. Curran & L- G. Glass- 

For Intervenant, A. R. Johnson & A. G. Jones. 



A large addition has recently been made to the 
Faculty Library in the shape of some $2,500.00 worth 
of Law books, purchased by our worthy Dean Tren- 
holme during his vacation on the other side. 

The collection consists of valuable French Law 
Reports as well as certain English sets invaluable to 
the careful student. The Faculty bids soon to equal if 
not eclipse any of the other Faculties in the complete- 
ness of its equipment. 

Great satisfaction has been expresed by certain of the 
Professors, that the number of Students, especially in 
the second and third years, who were 4 ‘ forced ” to 
catch trains about 4.30 p.m., has been materially dimin- 
ished. 



J bs is said to be memorizing Dalloz “ Rccueils 

Alphabetiques .” 



“ Yes, gentlemen the pick of the Saxon Slave 
market went to Irish landlords.” (Suppressed cheers 
from the Hibernian element in rear.) 

Law is gradually becoming an athletic as well as 
an intellectual faculty. 



12 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



The first fifteen of the Football Club has the sup- 
port of four of our members. 



With all due deference to the architects of the Fraser 
Institute, the Students in law would be greatly pleased 
if the subject of “ Ventilation ” could be solved without 
reference to the Code of Civil Procedure. 



R I P. — The Italians of New Orleans have been again 
heard from ; a modern instance of “ the empire of brutal 
force and superstition .” 



In spite of the unusual havoc of the Matriculation 
•examination, the Freshman class in Arts is extremely 
large. 

How is the man who was “ trying to scrape an ac- 
quaintance with the cinder track ? ” 



The following have been appointed class reporters : 
4th year, A. Mahaffy ; 3rd year, W. P. Garret ; 2nd 
year, R. H. Rogers ; 1st year, G. Campbell. 



Prof : Are you an Undergraduate or a Partial, Mr. 
Softhat ? Mr. S. : I’m a Reverend. 



Chaucer writes with considerable ease— final *» s vou 
know. J 



Arts is going to start a glee club, which, we suppose, 
every man will join at once. Twelve men were ap- 
pointed to constitute a Committee, of which Mr. Dona- 
hue is chairman and Mr. MacKeracher is secretary. 



The class of 94 is publishing a sheet of its own songs. 

V hen the Arts tug-of-war team was in training, it 
went down to one of the police stations and practised 
with some of “ the finest .” We presume the team tried 
to get on the good side of these gentlemen so that there 
might be no danger of their being pulled on Sports Day. 

Every Freshman is desired to compete for the 
Faculty song and to sign hisname three times a day in 
the Library register. 

So active is my intellect, 

So pliant is my pen, 

They always put me in the list 
Of supple mental men. 



The class elections in the several years resulted as 
follows 4th year : pres., Mansur ; vice pres., Gordon ; 
sec., Brown. 3rd year: pres., Day ; vice-pres., A. Gra- 
ham ; sec., Boyd. 2nd year: pres., M. Macintosh; 
vice- pres,, Smyth; sec., A. Burnet. 1st year: pres., 



S. Archibal ; vice-pres., W. Turner; sec., M. Edgar. 
The following were elected to the Reading Room Com- 
mittee : from the 4th year, Hickson and Mclver ; from 
the 3rd year, Davis and MacKeracher ; from the 1st 
year, Lynch and Molson. 



Perhaps the most popular lectures in the Arts 
course are those in Zoology, given by Sir William 
Dawson, and which are at present efficiently taken by 
Mr. Deeks during Sir William’s very regrettable illness. 
The Faculty may well feel proud that these lectures 
have not to be suspended or that foreign aid has not to 
be called upon. There is only one drawback that the 
students feel, and which will be particularly felt at the 
time of examinations, and it is that they are not sup- 
plied with phonographs. No stenographer need apply. 

We are led to suppose that the French class of the 
third year are to form a French dramatic club under the 
direction of Professor Darey. We have not yet heard 
what is the character of the play or when it is to be 
placed on the boards. We hope to give more particu- 
lars soon. 



On Saturday at least the students of the second year 
do not suffer from lack of exercise. Some affirm that 
the Botanical “exertion ’ on Saturday forenoon is 
sufficient exercise for the whole week. The mountain 
is certainly a fine gymnasium. 



1 he fourth year Arts made a grand muster this year. 
The examiners dealt somewhat kindly last spring- 
thanks for this irrepressible voice of conscience which 
seemed to be stifled during their first two years while 
their numbers were considerably diminished by the 
much-dreaded “ plucking ” process. 



I he freshmen of last session have returned to Col- 
lege in the dignified character of Sophomores. That 
annual epidemic known as the sessional exams, 
wrought sad havoc in their ranks-15 out of a class 
of about 45 having fallen victims to its ravages. Of 
the survivors a considerable number had to resort to 

sups in order to finally eradicate the effects of the 
disease. 



Comparatioe Medicine. 

At the annual meetings for the election of class offi- 
cers in the different years, the following were chosen. 
third year. 



Class Reporter. A. W. Tracy. 

As president, *• Glen,” who is an extremely popuk 
man, will no doubt perform his many duties in a sati: 
factory manner. A vote of thanks was then tender® 
the former president, A. S. Cleaves, for the very abl 
method in which he discharged his duties in the past. 



SECOND YEAR. 



President Sherman Cleaves. 

Class Reporter.... R. H. Grattan. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 13 

— - _ ■ ■ ■ - ■ - 



FIRST YEAR. 



President J. C. Cutting. 

Class Reporter.... B. K. Baldwin. 

All the class of ’93 have returned with the exception 
of Mr. Wylie and Stephens, who are daily expected. 



11 Buck” Ewing and Bruce Anderson are playing on 
the second team, and materially aided that team in 

piling up 12 against Montreal 2, on Saturday the 15th. 

: 

T. Sturrock, who was unavoidably absent the past 
two sessions, is back, and will graduate with the class 
of ’93. 



We are told by good authority that a departure from 
a certain equilibrium, which an organism in health 
always maintains, means a diseased condition. Was it 
to maintain this equilibrium that “ Prof. Dick ” of the 
Faculty of Comparative Medicine, finding that there 
was not enough material to feed his capacious cerebral 
cells in one faculty, did, in order that this vital balance 
be kept in a perfect state of co-ordination, join the 
Faculty of Human Medicine. We trust that he will be 
as popular in the latter as he was in the former. 



Medical Students and others interested in zoology 
would find it greatly to their benefit if they would visit 
the Museum of the Veterinary College and \ iew its 
most recent additions. The animals, though not 
numerous, are of great rarity, imported to this country 
from England at an enormous expense— so we are told. 



The temporary aberration of the sense of sight, that 
the gods saw fit to inflict on the janitor of the Medical 
Faculty during the summer, has not lessened to any 
appreciable extent his acute powers of discernment, 
for he has already picked out the likely freshies among 
his old friends the Vets. 

<t j^jt ” is holding down his sit in a manner which, il 
imitated by others, would at least minimize considerable 
of the tribulations of this world. 

The latest at the veterinary college is: “ Where 

did you get that dog ? 



%hz “ 'Bonalda.” 

The first year of Matriculated Donalda students is 
twenty in number, and in addition three, as partials are 
preparing to attain to this position at Christmas. We 
are pleased to notice that in the recent competitive 
examination for exhibitions, three of their number car- 
ried off the honors. This is a sign of the times, and 
but corroborates a remark made last year by Sir Wil- 
liam Dawson, to the effect, that succeeding years bid 
fair to outrival those preceding in literary attainments 
and the winning of honors. 



Officers for ensuing year elected as follows : — 
FOURTH YEAR. 

President Miss Millar. 

Vice-president 11 Macdonald. 

Secretary... “ Boright. 

THIRD YEAR. 

President Miss Ogilvy. 

Vice-president “ Craig. 

Secretary “ Hargrave. 

SECOND YEAR. 

President Miss Seymour. 

Secretary “ Cameron. 

FIRST YEAR. 

President Miss Hammond. 

Secretary “ Henderson. 

• v ■ ' ✓ • * 

OFFICERS OF READING ROOM COMMITTEE. 

President Miss Angus, Arts 1893* 

Sec.-Treas “ Warner, “ 1894. 



CLASS ’ 93 - 

We are glad to welcome Miss F. Botterell back to 
McGill, after an absence of two years spent on the 
Continent, but regret that she is not to rejoin her old 
classmates. 



The Honor Science Class expect to pass some very 
pleasant and profitable evenings this session, thanks to 
the kind hospitality extended to them by Dr. and Mrs. 
Adams. 

Miss Ethelwyn Pitcher, gold medalist and valedic- 
torian of Arts ’92, is now gracefully fulfilling her duties 
as lady preceptress of Stanstead College. Though 
sorry to lose her from our midst, we are pleased that 
her sphere of usefulness is not limited, knowing that her 
influence is an elevating one on all who come within 
its range. 



Class 1 893 regrets that the happy hours spent with 
the French professor are to be regarded as past. Gone 
are the little lectures on etiquette, the gentle intima- 
tions to pcnlez plus fort , the ever fresh pun on the name 
of our youngest, which mark many a bright hour of 
our career. 



By the way, will some one tell us if they have ever 
had any acquaintance with soupe-au-lait ? 



Will our honor scientist kindly explain why calcite 
occurs in such close proximity to the relics of 
shoemakers’ and tinsmiths’ wares ? 



rH 



MCGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Attention, is drawn to the fact that important notices 
are adorning the frame of a mirror in Donalda halls. 



An explanation is requested. 



A report has reached us to the effect that the last ex- 
pedition of the geology class was marked by the import- 
ant discovery of a new mineral “ lumbago.” Its com- 
position may be hypothetical. 



'Personals, 

Dr Thos. Jameson, Gold Medalist and Valedic- 
torian of Class ’9 2 y has taken up his residence at 
Niagara Falls, N.Y. His lingering interest in this 
province was marked by a visit to the Eastern Town- 
ships a short time ago. 

Dr. G. A. Berwick, of the Montreal Maternity, is, 
we are glad to state, making a good recovery from his 
recent attack of typhoid. During his illness his duties 
have fceen ably assumed by Dr. T. Taylor. 

Dr. J. Norman Taylor (Class ’92), of Ottawa, visited 
Montreal on Saturday, Oct. 15th. About fiteen thou- 
sand people greeted him as he appeared on the M.A. A. 
grounds, as one of the famous Capital Lacrosse 
Team. 

Dr. J. L- Chabot (Class ’92) has decided to permanently 
locate in Ottawa, his birthplace, where he is now doing 
a good practice. 

' Dr. Albert Johnston (Class ’92) can be consulted at 
his office on Bleury st., Montreal. 

Doctors Langley and Binmore (Class ’92) are tak- 
ing Post Graduate Courses in Edinburgh. It is 
said that the latter will return as a specialist in diseases 
of children. 

Dr. Geo. H. Duncan, the dinner president (of Class 
’92), is. now located in Victoria, B.C., associated with his 
brother Dr. J. A. Duncan. 

Dr. O.T. McKinnon, theclass president of’92,is now 
in Lincoln, Nebraska. 

J)r. H. W. Hamilton, B.A. (Class ’90), has begun prac- 
tice on Metcalfe st., Montreal. 

Dr. Morphy (Class ’90), during his college days one 
of the leaders of song, has drawn nearer to us, having 
come in from Lachine to Cote St. Antoine. 

Dr. P. J. Hayes (Class ’92) practises his profession in 
Montreal. His office ison Wellington st. 

Dn H. B. Carmichael (Class ^92), the gentle 
anaesthetist of the M. G. H., was_taxed to his utmost 
extremity of patience a few days ago, when his favorite 



aetherizer was ruthlessly destroyed by an obstreperous 
patient. Dr. Carmichael lost a rubber bag, and the 
patient lost an offending stump. 

Rev. John MacDougall, B.A. 86, missionary in 
China, has returned to Canada for a short time, on 
account of the ill-health of his wife. 

James Le Rossignol, B.A. ’88, has been appointed to 
the chair in Philosophy in the University of Ohio. 

W.J. Messenger, B.A. ’92, is lecturing in English in 
McGill College. 

L. R. Gregor, B.A., is lecturing in German in McGill 
College. 

W. H. Kollmyer, B.A. ’92, is teaching in the Mon- 
treal Collegiate Institute. 

A. B. Wood, B.A. ’92, is Principal of St. Johns 
High School. 

H. M. Jaquays, B.A. ’92, is lecturing in St. Francis 
College. 

R. MacDougall, B.A. ’90, has gone to Harvard to 
study Philosophy and English Literature. 

Donald Guthrie, B A. ’92, preached during vacation 
in Chalmers Church, Guelph. The Toronto Mail 
spoke highly of his sermon. 

Among the visitors last week we noticed Mr. J. P. 
Ball, C.E., Applied Science ’86, who is now engaged 
in the construction of the new sewerage in Chicago. 

The Applied Science students regret very much that 
they did not return to town early enough to accord to 
Prof. Nicolson and his newly married bride the 
reception that was fitting on the occasion of the close 
of their wedding trip. 

Prof. Chandler’s new book on Differential and 
Integral Calculus is proving a great boon to his classes, 
and the fact of its being placed on the market at such a 
very low price is an evidence of the excellent feeling 
between the Professor and his students. 

The appointment of Mr. R. S. Lea as lecturer in 
Mathematics and Drawing is one which is eminently 
satisfactory to all concerned, and is an instance of the 
appreciation which the Faculty of Applied Science has 
for its old students. Mr. Lea, who is a native of 
Prince Edward Island, graduated with the highest 
honors in 1890, and since then has obtained a broad 
practical experience of such a nature as to peculiarly 
fit him for his present position. 

Mr. E- A. Davis has resumed his studies at McGill 
after an absence of about two years. 

Mr. Moffatt comes to us from Morrin College. Both 
gentlemen are registered at the Wesleyan Theological 
College. 



ABBOTTS, CAMPBELL & MEREDITH. 

Advocates, Solicitors, etc. 

No, IX Sospital Street, 

MONTREAL. 

J. B. Abbott, C. S. Campbell, 

H. Abbott, Jr., Q. C. F. E. Meredith, 

H. J. Hague. 



J. S. Archibald, Q.C., D.C.L. Geo. G. Poster, B.C.L. 

ARCHIBALD & FOSTER, 

Advocates, Barristers, Etc- 



GUARDIAN ASSURANCE BUILDING, 

i8x St. James Street, 

* MONTBEAL. 



Telephone 1880. 
Cable Addreas, 14 Archfost. 



ATWATER & MACKIE, 

Adoocates, Barristers, Commissioners, etc. 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 ST. JAMBS STREET, 

MONTREAL. 



Hon. John S. Hall, Q.G., K.P.P. Selkirk Cross. 

Albert J. Brown. W. Prescott Sharp. 

HALL, CROSS, BROWN S SHARP, 

Advocates, Barristers and Solicitors* 

.... TEMPLE BUILDING .... 

186 St James Street - MONTREAL. 



Surgical instruments 

and Chemical flrppafatus. 

A fall stock constantly on hand, imported direct from the leading 
manufacturers of the world. 

... AN INSPECTION INVITED. . . * 

LYMAN, SONS & CO.. 

.*. 384 St. Paul Street. 

PA LM ER'S 

Hair Dressing Palace- 

THE LARGEST ASSORTMENT OB' 

brushes, Combs , (Razors, Strops , 

C Perfumery and Toilet 

Articles. 

1743 & 1745 NOTRE DAME STREET . 

CROUP , Photos, Combination or direct, 
— - — form one of our specialties— first 

• class work. 

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 

R. SUMMERHAYES & OO., 1 Bleury Street 



MACMASTER & McGIBBON, 

AB703AT2S, BABBBTSBS, ETC. 

The Temple, St. James Street, 
MONTREAL. 

Donald Macic astir, Q.C. Robert D. McGibbon, Q.C. 

F. S. Maclennan. 



ROBERTSON, FLEET & FALCONER 

- ADVOCATES - 

157 St. James Street, 

MONTREAL. 

W. & F J P. CURRIE & CO., 

IOO CREY NUN STREET. 

IMPORTERS OF 

SCOTCH GLAZED DRAIN PIPES, 

Chimney Tops, Vent Linings, Flue Covers, Fire Bricks, Fire 
Clay, Portland Cement, Roman Cement, Canada Cement, 
Water Lime, Whiting, Plaster Paris, Borax, 

China Clay, etc., etc. 

MANUFACTURERS OF 

Bessemer Steel Sofa> Chair & Bed Springs. 

A LARGE STOCK ALWAYS ON HAND. 




READING NOTES. 

Students, teachers and physicians get Turkish baths 
at half price at the Turkish Bath Institute in this city. 
Travellers say that nowhere in Europe can you get a 
better bath. 

Medical men generally are now recommending the 
Turkish Bath for the general health, and more espe- 
cially for rhuematism, coughs and colds. It is a very 
pleasant remedy. 

Gentlemen have the early morning, afternoon and 
evening hours. 



Good Fall and Winter 



BOOTS 



$2.75, 3.50, 4.00 PER PAIR. : • 

Just the th«t9 for Students. 

Witi. F. SflARDON, 

2337 and 2339 St. Catherine St. 



Sporting Goods. 

Manufacturer of Silliard and Pool Tables- 
Footballs, tennis and cricket bats, balls, etc. 
All at lowest prices at 
D. NIGHTINGALE, 1742 Notre Dame St. 



WE MAKE NO BONES 

About it when we tell the Students that we carry the largest and 
best assorted st ock to be found in Montreal, in the following lines, 
at ROCK BOTTOM PRICES, and give 6 p.c. discount to 
Students. So come to us for your Hats and Caps, Underwear, 
Furnishings, also Boots and Shoes at 

JOHN ALLAN’S, 

659 TO 665 CRAIG STREET, - - Near Bleary. 



It goes without saying that 



J 



Is the favorite Studio with McGill. Class pictures a 
specialty. Photos of Professors on sale. Special rates 
as usual to Students. 

COR. ST. CATHERINE AND VICTORIA ST. 
Bell Telephone 3346. 



••• 

•#* 



MILLS, 

Furrier & /fatter, 



ST. CATHERINE ST., 



2nd door West of Peel. 





(TE/M 



W MANAS EB 




136 TO 140 ST. PETER STREET, 

CORNER CRAIG. 

Branches all over the City. Telephones : Beu, 666 and 1745- 



E. A. GERTH, 



DIRECT IMPORTER OF HIGH CLASS 

HAVANA CIGARS. 

B. B. B. PIPES. 

Sole agent for Rynasi Freres 

EGYPTIAN CIGARRETTES, 

Smoke Eerth’s Celebrated Mixture. 

2235 ST, CATHERINE QUEENS BLOCK. 



BOOK BINDING 

Iq all its bua^cl^es. 



The BINDING OF PART BOOKS 

A SPECIALTY. 



JOHN LOVELL & SON, 

/ SH 23 an d 25 EE 

ST. NICHOLAS ST., 

MONTREAL., 




