Vol. XIII 



No. 6 













88 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, Guerin & Greenshields, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, &c., 

Chambers: Exchange Bank Building, 

1728 NOTRE DAME STREET, - - MONTREAL. 

J. N. Greenshields. Edmond Guerin, R. A. E* Greenshields. 

ROBERTSON, FLEET k FALCONER, 

ADVOCATES, 

157 ST. vTALIMIIES STREET, 
MONTREAL. 

ATWATER & MACKIE, 

Advocates, Barristers, Commissioners, fc, 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 St. Janies St., Montreal. 



Antiseptic Materials, Bandages, Etc, 

MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 

W. A. DYER & CO., 
Pknnlical J Dispeisiit ChiiiK, 

14 & 16 Phillips Square, Cor. St. Catherine St., 

MONTREAL. 

Bandages, Roller, Muslin, 

Bandages, Cotton, 

Bandages. Absorbent, 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze, 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, Assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent, 

Cotton Wool, Borated, 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated, 

Cotton Wool, Sublimated. 

Drainage Tubes, Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent, 

Gauze, Borated, 

Gauze, Carbolized, 

Gauze, Eucalyptol. 

Gauze, lodororm, 

Gauze. Naphthalin, 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill; Inhalers, Celluloid, 

Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached, 

Jute, Absorbent, 

Jute, Carbolized, 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes; 
Sponges, Antiseptic; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain; Sponges, 
Gamgee’s Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies’. 



HEADQUARTERS 



CHAPLEAU, HALL, NICOLLS & BROWN, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Commissioners, &c., 

Ill St. James St., Montreal. 

Hon. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. ARMINE D. NICOLLS 

JOHN S. HALL, "Jr. ai.rprt t nomPM 



e. 





Fine Custom Tailors. 



SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 



53 BE AYER HALL HILL. 



—FOR— 

School and College Ten Boots ! 

DRYSDALE’S 

232 ST. .TA-IMIIES ST. 



MEBICJIL WORKS, HOOKS used m * course 

SCIEJYCE TEXT BOOKS , 

THE V'AHIOUS THEOLOGICAL HOOKS. 

Full Assortment in Stock and Supplied at Rock Bottom Prices 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books, Ac., Ac., 

^ B EST V AIjTJ E I IV TO WJS , 

Stylographic Pens, Anti-Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty. 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

233 St. J ames Street, 

ALSO 

Branch Store 1423 St. Catherine St 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Vol. XIII.] McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, FEBRUARY 3rd, 1890. [No. 6. 




BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

J. F. Mackie, B.A., B.C.L., President . 
C. A. Barnard, B.C.L., Sec.-Treas. 

F. G. Finley, M.D. 

J. A. Elliot, Arts *90. 

Peers Davidson, Law *92. 

John Clark, Med. ’91. 

A. E. S iiUTT lew o rth, Science *90. 



EDITORS. 



J. A. MacPhail, B.A., Editor-in-Chief . 



Blanche B. Evans, B.A. 
S. W. Mack, Arts *90. 

E. H. Hamilton, B.A. Sc. 



F.W. Hibbard, B.A., Law’91 
A. H. Hawkins, Science ’90. 
H. Yates, B.A. 



D. B. Holden, B.A., Med. ’91. 



Maud Abbott, *90, Editor for Ladies’ Department. 
Arthur Weir, B.A. Sc., Corresponding Editor. 



The University Gazette is published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which rule 
no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

Published by The University Gazette Co., P. O. Box 
1290, Montreal, and printed by The Burland Lith. Co., 9 
Bleury Street. 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE. 

Editorials ------- 89-90 

Contributions - 90-92 

McGill News 92-94 

Societies 94 

Poetry -------- 94-95 

Correspondence 95 

Sporting 95-97 

Personals 98 



Between the Lectures 
College World 



Ebitorials 



The now famous ‘ B. A.’ Bill, introduced into the 
Legislative assembly by the Hon. W. W. Lynch, and 
passed by that house a year ago, is about to undergo 
a second trial before the legislature, being this time 
fathered by Mr. J. S. Hall, M. P. P. for Montreal 
West. The reasons for the rejection of this measure 
in the Council, after passing the lower house with a 
respectable majority, were far from conclusive, but 
are the main grounds of opposition taken by the op- 
ponents of the bill. A determined effort now seems 



likely to be made to prevent this measure again passing 
the Assembly, and a meeting of the Bar of the 
District of Montreal, was called on Saturday, the 25th 
of January, to protest against its provisions. 

It has frequently been urged that a provision of 
law, exempting Bachelors of Arts from the necessity 
of passing the preliminary examination imposed by the 
Councils of the professional bodies, would be, to 
favour the graduates of the English speaking Univer- 
sities whose degrees were, in general, obtained much 
more easily than those of Laval, while several other 
French speaking colleges of high standing grant no 
degrees at all. 

The reputation McGill has won for herself through- 
out Canada, the United States, and even in Europe is 
of itself a sufficient refutation of any allegation of 
want of competency on the part of her graduates, 
while the very plentiful decorating of names with 
letters of learned import would hardly bear out the 
claim of reserve and severe restriction in the 
matter of degrees on the part of the, so-claimed, 
injured Universities. 

Another plausible plea put forward by the oppon- 
ents of the B. A. bill is that, if the graduates of 
McGill and Lennoxville, not to mention Universities 
of other provinces, are as competent as claimed, why 
should they demur to an examination they should be 
able to pass with ease ? The answer to this is, that 
the examination in itself, easy or difficult, is far from 
the sole ground of complaint. It is the principle of 
allowing independent and irresponsible professional 
bodies to openly cast a slur on the teaching of, at 
least one eminent University, in denying it privi- 
leges, which are freely extended by like bodies to 
similar Universities in all parts of the British 
Empire. 

Any claim that the result of the ‘ B. A.’ measure, 
if carried, would be to derogate from the qualifica- 
tions of men entering the professions, and open its 
portals to ignorant and half trained aspirants, is 
simply ridiculous. There can be no comparison 
between the short-timed test the profession impose 
than the long series of rigid examinations that lead up 
to the degree of B. A. in the Universities of McGill 
and Lennoxville. The comparatively large number 
of ignorant men who will be found within the ranks 
of the Bar is proof of the insufficiency of the present 



90 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



1890.] 



test to act as a preventative as far as that profession is 
concerned. 

The result of the meeting above referred to is not 
yet known. It is earnestly to be hoped the pre- 
judices of an ill-informed section of the Bar will not 
succeed in placing an obstacle in the way of the bill 
to come before the Legislature. 



COLLEGE UNITY. 

One of the more important tendencies of the pre- 
sent day is seen in the rage for organizing different 
Societies. In the church this is especially noticeable. 
A long sermon is prefaced by a tedious list of notices, 
and, on every night in the week, some Society sepa- 
rates the members of the homo circle. The same 
tendency is active in secular life, and often far more 
injurious ; since we frequently meet with Societies 
operating under the veil of secrecy, and thus placing 
their transactions beyond the pale of the law. Thus 
it happens that, amid such a variety and multitude 
of demands on one’s time and resources, the indi- 
vidual is thrown into inextricable confusion. The 
securing of important ends, which can only be at- 
tained by concentrated efforts and attention, is thus 
rendered almost impossible. In College life this 
tendency is manifested in a marked degree. At Mc- 
Gill, each affiliated tluological College is fairly over- 
run with Societies, usually of a literary nature. For 
this reason the Undergraduates’ Literary Society re- 
ceives but comparatively little assistance from theo- 
logical students. Pent up in the confines of their 
own denomination, they fail to cultivate that broad- 
ness of thought and truly Christian spirit which 
would be engendered by coming into contact with 

believers in a different creed. Hence it is thatamonrr 

© 

many other students they are, generally speaking, 
looked upon with a mild sort of antipathy, a feeling 
which, to them, is summed up in that expressive term 
“ Theolog.” Another source of distraction, fortu- 
nately feeble in McGill, but quite strong in American 
Universities, is found in the Greek letter orders, and 
other secret College Societies. Whatever good they 
may accomplish, it is obvious that they must prove 
detrimental to the regular literary society, that they 
tend to create a false basis of social standing, and to 
produce College feuds. So forcibly has this been 
impressed upon many Universities, that their exist- 
ence has been forbidden, as for instance, at Prince- 
ton and Oberlin. To what extent this Society mania 
will yet develop, it is impossible to foretell. Along 
the line of reform in this direction, the decision of 
McGill students to merge their separate Faculty din- 



ners into a grand University banquet, is an admirable 
one. It is indicative of a growing feeling in favor 
of unity of action. It is very important that Faculty 
pride should not be allowed to prevent the accom- 
plishment of so desirable an end. If all McGill 
students would aim more at concentration of action 
than at confining their attention to their own particu- 
lar friends, faculty or denomination, the results would 
be more commensurate with the labor expended, and 
would increase the renown of their Alma Mater. 



A very bad habit has been developed in McGill of 
a laxity in regard to punctuality. Meetings are 
called for a certain hour, and students put in an ap- 
pearance all the way from five minutes to an hour 
late. In this way more time is wasted than is occu- 
pied in the transaction of business. All meetings 
should be called to order the minute for which notice 
is given, and should not be characterized by a loose- 
ness which is indicative of bad breeding or of back- 
woods villages, where there may be an excuse in get- 
ting stuck in a snow-drift while driving fifty miles 
to meeting. 

One of the oldest and most esteemed members of 
the Faculty of Medicine has been made the victim 
of some coward’s meanness. A man who is capable 
of writing an anonymous letter is a man to be de- 
spised, but one who can make false charges in such a 
manner, is beneath contempt. The letters have been 
sent to an expert in handwriting, and it is said the 
culprit has been detected. If so, his fellow-students 




sion. 



A particularly disagreeable story comes from Kjmg- 
sion Medical College in connection with body snatch- 
ing, which, we hope, for the good name of all stu- 
dents of Medicine, is not true. Whatever defects in 
Administration this Province may have, its Anatomy 
Act is admirable, and such abominations ai*e unneces- 
sary and impossible at any Quebec Medical School. 



Contributions. 

EDUCATION OF WOMEN (IN GERMANY.) 

In a recent number of The Nation an article ap- 
peared which contained some interesting information 
upon the surprisingly backward state of women’s educa- 
cation in Germany. A table of statistics given shows 
that of all the progressive western nations, Germany 
has hung back longest from allowing her women to 



1890.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



91 



enter the sacred halls of learning, and, shutting the 
portals of knowledge upon them, is depriving her 
society of one of the most vital, refining and elevating 
influences it should enjoy. 

Switzerland admitted women to her Universities in 
1868 (at Zurich), Sweden in 1870, Denmark in 1875, 
Italy in 1876, France, Holland, Belgium, Norway, 
Spain and England in 1880. In Denmark, women 
can take degrees in anything hut theology, in 
Sweeden in anything but law and theology. 

Thus all western Europe has combined to support 
the advance of woman’s education, with the excep- 
tion of Austria and Germany. In Austrian Univer- 
sities, they have sometimes been admitted to hear, 
but in Germany even this is scarcely allowed. The 
“ sweet-and simple ” theories of the destiny of women 
that still possess so strongly the German mind were 
expressed concisely by Dr. Schneider, of Berlin, in a 
late address, “ Where now,” he sternly asks, “ does 
women best fulfiil her appointed destiny 1 Again Holy 
Writ gives us the answer : And they said unto him, 
‘ Where is Sarah thy wife 1 ’ and he said, ‘ Behold, in 
the tent.’ ” 

This partriarchial philosophy is more courteously 
and chivalrously expressed by the German poets, but 
the thoughts underlying the graceful words are of a 
similar nature. And the German women concur in 
these opinions of their all-wise men, accept the hom- 
age paid to their goodness and beauty with becoming 
gratitude, and yield all claim to the obligations and 
the privileges that the possession of their intellect 
entails upon them — this with the majority. 

But a small band of reformers — chiefly women, 
among whom is Helene Lange — have been at work 
for some time, are now beginning to gain ground 
visibly. The movement began several years ago in 
connection with the system of High School for girls. 
These are institutions where girls are supposed to 
enter at about the age of seven years, and graduate in 
eight or nine years. They are a sort of pendant to 
the gymnasia. They teach a variety of subjects with 
scanty time for each, finally sending forth their pupils 
with an “ education ” consisting of a smattering of 
various arts and accomplishments. One not worthy 
of the name, calculated neither to store the mind 
with useful information, nor — far less — to deepen and 
ennoble the character. The reform has been at- 
tempted with regard both to the theory and the 
organization of these schools. The theory on which 
they are carried on — formulated by a body of girls, 
school-teachers at Weimar in 1872 — is to the effect 
that girls ought to receive some intellectual advan- 
tages in order to make suitable companions tor their 
educated husbands. This being the end in view, it is 
of course reasonable that men should be the best 
judges of what they themselves want. Accordingly 
men must be the instructors, and no women are to be 
admitted as teachers in the girls High Schools. 

To this position there has been, of course, some 
objection all along, but it is only lately that the 
minority has become strong enough to “ organize lor 
the campaign.” 

At the close of 1887 a number of Berlin women 
presented a petition to the Prussian House of Repre- 



sentatives and the Minister of Education, praying 
first : that women be given a larger share in the 
teaching of girls in the public schools, and especially 
that the ethical or character-building subjects be put 
in the hands of women teachers : second, that insti- 
tutions be established by the State for the training of 
women competent to do this work. 

By this petition the matter was brought before the 
public, and the government is now occupied in look- 
ing into the methods and workings of English 
womens colleges ; let us hope that the results of the 
investigation may soon become apparent. There has 
just been established a systematic course of training 
for women in connection with the Victoria Lyceum 
at Berlin. The courses are to be obligatory for three 
years, to combine lectures with seminary work, and 
to terminate in a State examination with a diploma 
for those who pass. The Lyceum will probably 
develop in time into a regular University for women, 
although the only subjects it now takes up are history 
and German. 

The “ Realkiirse fur Fanen ” provides instruction 
in mathematics, physics, chemistry, political economy, 
Latin, German, French and English. It is open to 
graduates of the girls high schools. 

The article in The Nation, from which the above 
information has been gleamed concludes as follows : 
“ Thus the future is in the hands of women them- 
selves for the reformation has gained its foothold. 

“ It is not hard to defend the thesis that the educa- 
tion of girls is, in a sociological point of view, even 
more important than that of boys ; so one cannot 
help wondering what would happen if this principle 
were recognized in Germany and put into practice. 
We might then look forward to a race of German 
women, essentially different from those of the present 
day. Will they be less vigorious of body 1 Science 
will see to that. Will they be less attractive to man 1 
Nature looks out for that. Of one thing we are very 
sure, they will be helped and not hindered by what- 
ever accurate knowledge they may possess, in the 
carrying out of the pretty domestic programme which 
Schiller lays down, — 

“ Nahren sie wachsam das ewige Fener 
Schoner gefiible mit helliger Hand.” 

No doubt whatever that this is a woman’s vocation, 
and the more intelligent she is, the better she can 



CANADIAN WRITERS. 

The 19th century has been called an age of phil- 
anthropy. There is at present a thrill in the air, 
which is said to mean an awakening of Canadian 
national sentiment. This may then be considered a 
propitious moment for urging a humble plea on be- 
half of a forlorn and oppressed class — Canadian 
writers. 

This portion of an otherwise prosperous community 
suffer deeply from the irreconcilable diversity of ex- 
pectation and reality and make their timid ventures 
under a discouraging sense of failure. Their very 



92 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1890. 



existence is denied ; many of their own class ex- 
pending talents and ingenuity in proving that no in- 
tellectual ability exists among us. On the one hand 
the soothing balm of mutual admiration has been ad- 
ministered to the extent of absurdity, on the other, 
their infirmities have been ridiculed with the cruel- 
lest candor. Strangers have encroached upon their 
ground and taken the bread from their mouths. 

Hitherto, it has been one of our national weak- 
nesses, to incline rather toward servile imitation of 
the ideals and standards of other countries than to- 
ward the development of any markedly distinctive 
characteristic of our own. It would not be a reckless 
prophecy to say that as long as the actual condition 
of things continues, there never will be a Canadian 
literature. 

About forty years ago, in the United States there 
was a recognition by thoughtful persons of the fact, 
that a national literature was required as an aid to 
the formation of a strenuous national sentiment. The 
first tentative efforts in this direction may never have 
attained the luster of genius, but the result of sym- 
pathizing encouragement given to literary aspirants 
has since appeared in the work of Longfellow, Bryant, 
Lowell, Whittier, Bret Hart, Mark Twain, Howell, 
all decidedly American in character. 

The Christmas before last, one of our leading 
Montreal dailies paid an American author a large 
sum of money for a tale for its Christmas number ; 
the story could lay no claim to literary excellence, they 
could have obtained just as good from many Canadian 
writers for a quarter the price. The paper was sent 
everywhere as a Canadian production, but it would 
have required the exercise of some ingenuity to dis- 
cover in what the Canadian element consisted. Some 
time ago the Toronto Saturday Night advertised that 
at a considerable expense, its editor had secured the 
rights of reprinting the tales published in a certain 
English journal. If Kirby's “ Chien d’Or ” had been 
written by an American, it would have been deemed 
a national glory, yet I question if one Canadian in 
ten is familiar with even the title. In the preface 
to a very charming work recently published in the 
Century it was asserted that the scenes and incidents 
of Canadian history have never as yet been touched 
by novelist or romancer. • 

There are journals, extremely particular in the col- 
lection of their subscription list, who utterly ignore 
the modest claims of their contributors and regard 
iniquitous small treasons practised upon them as 
rather a clever joke. Most of these papers will 
graciously accept articles that are offered without ex- 
pectation of remuneration and do not appear to be 
troubled by any qualms concerning the lawfulness of 
the process. Is it any wonder that much of such 
writing is vapid, without fibre or force ? There ex- 
ists a class of persons to whom the glory of appearing 
in print seems to offer a valid source of satisfaction ; of 
whom it may be said that while asking for bread, they 
will accept a stone with ingenuousness and avidity, 
but the physical necessities of life press upon writers 
with claims just as imperative as upon other men and 
women ; even genius has not solved the problem of 



living as the lily of the field, they can neither clothe 
themselves with fig-leaves nor nourish themselves on 
“ the feast of reason and the flow of soul.” They 
are forced to have bread, most have a carnal longing 
for butter and even yearning aspirations for cake. 
The consequences are that writers of ability carry 
their literary wares where they can expect the best 
remuneration, and our brightest intelligence goes to 
enrich the strong tide of American journalism, and 
many good Canadians lament as a mysterious dis- 
pensation of Providence that we “ have no Canadian 
literature.” With the selfishness common to sinful 
human nature, editors and proprietors of papers pro- 
bably do not feel any especial claim laid upon them 
to devote themselves as victims upon the altars 
of Patriotism and Native Literature. As a class, 
they may be said to have a distaste amounting to 
fanaticism for lack of financial success. The actual 
occurrences of individual existence press upon them as 
they do upon the writers ; no one can doubt that the 
editor’s first duty is to render his paper attractive, in 
other words, to make it pay. Here, we reach the 
root of the matter. The remedy lies in the hand of 
the public who should be taught to recognize the 
link of connection. It is a simple case of the law of 
supply and demand. If readers wish for Canadian 
literature, it will very soon become the interest of 
publishers to supply it. Those who choose to in- 
dulge in genuine unadulterated enthusiasm concern- 
ing the intellectual development of their country 
might endeavor to carry out the idea in its entirety. 

Blanche L. Macdonell. 

January 22nd, 1890. 



JHctBiU News. 



The graduating class in Arts have decided to have 
group photos, to be taken by Notman & Co. 

The sale of Arts Reading Room periodicals, al- 
though slimly attended, was quite a success finan- 
cially. 

H. M. Tory, fourth Arts, has been chosen speaker 
to represent the Arts students at the university 
banquet. 

Evans, of the graduating class in Science, has been 
elected valedictorian, vice Lea, who resigned, pleadin" 
overwork. ° 

A. E. Shuttleworth has been chosen by the students 
of the Science Faculty to respond to the toast— “ The 
Undergrads.,” at the Banquet. 

The annual Italian concert came off again last 
week, and Antonio did a rushing business, in the sale 
of tickets, among the Medicals. 

Those who have “sups” will be glad to know 
that the date ot the banquet has been fixed for an 
evening when they can have “sups” of another 
kind. 



1890.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



93 



Six of the seven members of the Civil Engineering 
class, for the final year, are busily engaged getting 
out designs for a “ Soo Bridge.” Some original de- 
velopments are expected. 

lhe Musical Association is in charge of the music 
at the University banquet. This will afford an op- 
portunity to show the value of such an organization. 
Where are the 25 banjos 1 

The graduating class in Medicine are having their 
“ class photo.” taken at Martin’s this year, and are 
determined to have a full number of men, even if 
they have to “ provide substitutes.” 

The students in Medicine are going to present a 
numerously signed petition to Mr. Cook, requesting 
him to have his photograph on sale at Summerhayes 
& Walford’s, and Notman’s, as the other professors do. 

It is very encouraging to Science students to head 
the list with forty representatives on the football 
team between the years 80-86, and speaks volumes 
for the popular institution. Go on Science, only the 
best can get there. 

A second year man suggests — “ Drawing should 
be made a compulsory subject in Matriculation Ex- 
aminations. The result would then be more satis- 
factory for diagramatic physiology, not to mention 
that many students would then be better prepared 
to do justice to the subject ! ” 

A meeting of lady students was held on Fri- 
day, January 24th. Information respecting the 
approaching University Dinner was given by 
Miss Botterell. It was decided to postpone the dis- 
cussion of the annual Donalda entertainment (for 
which the meeting had been called), “indefinitely.” 
Miss Botterell, as President of the fourth year, was 
appointed to represent the Department on the Dinner 
Committee. 

On November 25th, a presentation of a portrait of 
Sir William Dawson was made to the Natural History 
Society of Montreal. 

If any one deserves such recognition it is Sir 
William, who, for 34 years, has been an active mem- 
ber of the Society, 20 times elected President, con- 
tributed over 140 papers to the journal of the Society, 
a foremost authority in the science of Geology, and 
personally he has given a stimulus for the study of 
the natural sciences to all who have come into contact 
with him. 

The annual meeting of the Canadian Society of 
Civil Engineers was held in the College buildings on 
Thursday, the 23rd inst. The business meeting in 
the morning was held in the new Science apartments, 
and that for hearing the President’s address, in the 
Redpath museum in the afternoon, both of which 
were presided over by Col. Gzowski, the Society’s 
able president. The afternoon meeting was honored 
by the presence of His Excllency Lord Stanley, 
honorary member, also Sir William Dawson, honor- 
ary member. A large number of the active mem- 
bers were present. It is to be regretted that so few 
students saw their way clear to attend these meetings, 
which were both interesting and instructive from an 
Engineers’ stand point. 



MEDICAL GERMS. 

Some of the new Hospital Uniforms must have 
been purchased ready made. The rapidity of their 
fit is sometimes startling. 

* 

* * 

Apropos of the photo., it has been remarked that 
the Valedictorian’s hair has disappeared, and with it 
the Secretary’s side-lights. 

* 

* jfc 

A rumor was lately started that a ghostly appear- 
ance has on several occasions been seen in the hospital 
wards. The nurses have called it J. the R. 

* 

* * 

Poor old Mr. Russell is gone. It seems hard to 
realize that we shall get no more lectures on the 
grandeur of a medical man’s opportunities. 

* 

* * 

Keeping awake right after dinner is pure torture. 
The other day at the Surgical Clinic, Clune was no- 
ticed trying to wink at Lewin, and falling asleep in 
the act. 

* 

* * 

There are one or two final men, who make a prac- 
tice of attending classes for which they are not down, 
thus taking the work from those to whom it really be- 
longs. 

* 

* * 

There is an air of sobriety and seriousness about 
the Dispensary, which seems to weigh heavily on its 
old time frequenters. The fellows seem to go there 
to actually — work. 

* 

* * 

The class of ’90 were nearly having another dis- 
sension over the questions of gowns or no gowns, in 
the graduating picture. Gowns and hoods were de- 
cided upon, finally. 

* 

* * 

The “ Mercury Man” is in the hospital. We have 
not yet decided by which means “ Pete ” shall be 
done to death ; but it should be “something pleasant 
with boiling oil in it.” 

* 

>k ± 

It has been vaguely rumored that there is an “ In- 
structor” in Laryngology, attached to the Clinical 
Staff of the Hospital. Who, how and where he in- 
structs is the present mystery. 

* 

* * 

Some blackguard has been writing objectionable 
anonymous letters to the Professor of Surgery. 

It is to be hoped the worthy Dr. will not regard 
such contemptible action as countenanced by the 
class, with whom he is deservedly popular. 

* 

* * 

“ Gentlemen, I notice some of you more interested 
in the news of the day than in Skin Diseases. Keep 
the newspapers outside. It is a blessing that we can 
get rid of them somewhere, for the half of them are 
trash, forgotten as soon as read and if remembered, of 
no earthly use.” 

Nix Forstay. 



94 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1890. 



THE UNIVERSITY BANQUET. 

Arrangements have now been all but concluded 
in regard to the University Banquet, which will come 
off at the Windsor on Friday, the 14th of February, 
at 7.15 p.m., the price of tickets being $2 75. The 
Governor-General, visitor of the University, will un- 
avoidably be absent. Sir Donald Smith, Chancel- 
lor, will preside, and the gathering will embrace all 
features and departments of the University’s beiDg 
and work, including the Donalda students, wives of 
Professors, and Graduates and lady patronesses. 
Among the speakers, Sir Daniel Wilson or Principal 
Grant, Sir William Dawson, Hon. J. J. C. Abbott, 
Hon. Mr. Justice Church, Dean Trenholme, and 
Principal MacVicar, will be heard, while the Gradu- 
ates and the Students of the various Faculties will 
voice their sentiments through elected representa- 
tives. An excellent programme of music has been 
arranged by the Musical Association. It is expected 
that the regular features of the programme will con- 
clude by eleven o’clock, when doubtless an informal 
programme of less weight, but more merriment, will 
succeed. 

In conclusion, the committee may fairly lay claim 
to have done all in their power to make the inaugural 
University Banquet an unqualified success, and it 
remains but for the hearty co-operation of all classes 
in the University to make the undertaking what its 
best supporters could wish. 



Societies. 



UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY. 

The above society held its usual meeting on Friday 
evening, the 24th. The respective merits of 
German and French civilization were debated with 
vigor by Messrs. Hibbard and Topp, on the side of the 
Germans, and Curtis and Ferguson on that of the 
French. Alter an earnest and deep discussion, 
‘Froggy’ won. 



DELTA SIGMA. 

The Society met on Thursday, Jan. 23rd. The 
attendance of regular members was not what it should 
have been, but several welcome guests were present, 
among others Mrs. Ross, a former President of the 
Society. Miss Reay, in a paper on “ The Great 
North-West,” carried her hearers with her on a 
pleasant trip across the midland prairies. Miss James 
followed, with an essay on “ Canada’s Pacific Coast. 

The Impromptu Debate “ Resolved that the church 
be disestablished in England,” did not show very 
brilliant speaking, and was won for the negative by a 
very doubtful majority of one. The speakers were : 
Affirmative,— Misses Monk, Tatley and Moffatt. 
Negative,— Misses Abbott, Williams, and Leach. 



UNDERGRADUATES’ LITERARY SOCIETY. 

A regular meeting of this Society was held on the 
evening of the 24th, the President in the chair. The 
subject of debate was : Resolved, “ that secret societies 
are wrong in principle and pernicious in their results.” 
The Affirmative was supported by Davidson, Warne, 
(J. S.), and McDougall, (G. W). The speakers on 
the Negative were Tolmie, Ellenwood and Taylor. 
The decision was unanimous in favor of the Affirma- 
tive. The reading for the evening was given by R. 
S. Hall, and the essay, which was on Secret Societies, 
by S. W. Mack. T. Lee Quimby, a former student of 
McGill, kindly acted as critic. 



Poetry. 



ON THE DISSECTING TABLE. 

Here’s our “Subject ” tall and strong, 
With vermillion well injected 
Where the blood once coursed along, 
Ready now to be dissected. 

Someone never claimed, it seems 
Friendless midst our Modern Bable, 

Did he ever in his dreams 
See his table ? 

Here’s the hand that once held fast 
All things pleasant to its liking; 

Now its active days are past, 

Or for friendship or for striking. 

Nothing colder here could lie. 

Yet on someone’s palm there lingers 
Sense of its warm touch, while I 
Strip the fingers. 

How the dead eyes strangely stare 
When I lift the lids above them ! 

Yet some woman lives, I swear. 

Who too well had learnt to love them ; 
Someone since their fatal sleep 
Holds their smiles in recollection, 

While I put them by to keep 
For dissection. 

Then the heart I take it out, 

Handling it with no compunction ; 

Once it wildly pulsed, no doubt 
Well performed each wondrous function. 
Sped the life-blood on its race 
In miraculous gyration — 

Felt, responsive to one face, 

Palpitation. 

Where was life then, was it hid, 

In each curious convolution, 

Packed beneath the cranium lid 
With such ordered distribution ? 

Can we touch one spot and say 
Here all thoughts and feelings entered, 
Here — ’twas but the other day — 

Life was centered. 

No, that puzzle still remains 
One unsolved, supreme attraction ; 

Here are muscles, nerves and veins 
W here was that which gave them action? 
Though the scalpel’s edge be keen, 

Comes no answer from the tissues 
Telling us where life has been— 

Whence it issues. 

Yet this thought remains with him, 

Dead he is to outward seeming. 

Still those eyes so glazed and dim, 

Sees what lies beyond our dreaming. 
Know the secret of the spheres, 

Truth ot doom or bliss supernal, 

Read the riddle of the years — 

Life eternal 1 

So we’ll leave him, ready now 
lor to-morrow morning’s lecture ; 

Little recks that placid brow 
Of our wayward, wild conjecture. 

It may be our fate to die 
All unwept and missed by no men ; 

As he lies there we may lie — 

Absit omen 1 



1390.] UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 95 



FRIENDSHIP. 

One questions eagerly. “ Can friendship die ? ” 

Another, as with warning, answers low : 

“ The fickle winds of fortune ever blow, 

Full often severing the olden tie. 

Mark now the soul of aspiration high 
( )utstrips the lesser soul of progress slow ; 

And say if time be not a ruthless foe 
Whom only rarest friendship can defy. 

Unconsciously, perchance, may feeling wane, 

The turning point will oft elude the mind, 

Which some day wonders how the coldness grew, 

Behold yon rainbow through the glistening rain ! 

Can’st thou the limit of one colouring find? 

Yet does the violet shade into the blue.” 

Gowan Lea. 



Horrespon&ence. 



Editors University Gazette : — 

Sirs, — C an you inform me (1) who the share- 
holders of The Gazette are, and what are the neces- 
sary qualifications 1 (2) Who do you consider the 

proper persons to conduct The Gazette ? 

Kicker. 

[(1) The shareholders are a number of ladies and 
gentlemen, who know nothing of how a paper should 
be conducted, either financially or editorially. They 
do not know how to secure advertisements, to write 
an editorial or to correct a proof. They borrow five 
dollars and purchase one share each. (2) The proper 
persons to conduct a college journal are undoubtedly 
the freshmen. They alone know how to write 
spirited and sensational articles which will “ take,” 
such, for example, the latest freshman contribution on 
how the Dean should conduct the faculty on the 
most advanced, scientific and liberal principles. 

Eds. Un. Gazette]. 



Editors University Gazette : — 

No doubt, all of us are inclined to fall into the 
mistake of supposing all that is interesting to us is 
interesting to others. Therefore, it may not be a re- 
markable coincidence that the number of The 
Gazette which excited Med’s displeasure, had drawn 
forth groans from the Donalda Department, too. 
Only, in our case, the sighs were over long accounts 
of foot-ball matches, and we decided that many 
unnecessary columns were given to the men’s side of 
college life, while room had not then been found for 
a report of Sir Wm. Dawson’s lecture on “ Educated 
Women,” a subject we considered of general interest. 
Our editor does her best to collect wise and witty 
sayings, but finds these treasures as rare as precious. 
This may be because our best thoughts are “ too deep 
for words,” or so much of our time is given to the 
absorption of the ideas of others, we have lost the 
habit of originality. When, however, our minority 
is considered, “Feathers from the East Wing” and 
the spice of occasional contributions may be our fail- 
share of the fortnightly entertainment. 

Donalda. 



Editors University Gazette : — 

The continued crowding in the library is becoming 
very troublesome. Often chairs are not available. 
For the present would it not be practicable to obtain 
another room similar to the science room for a refer- 
ence library, in which all the books referred to in the 
ordinary courses of lectures might be kept 1 A 
student might be induced to help the librarian to look 
after this department. 

Reader. 



Sporting. 



HOCKEY. 

Medicine vs. Science. 

The last match of the Inter-faculty series was 
played on Wednesday evening, in the Dominion 
Rink, between representative teams from the Facul- 
ties of Medicine and Science, resulting in a most 
complete victory for Science. 

The teams lined up as follows : — 

Medicine. Position. Science. 

Irving Goal Drummond. 

N. Walsh Point Srnaill. 

Sparling Cover Point Pink. 

W. Walsh Forwards Jamieson. 

Holden “ Bickerdike. 

L. Walker “ H. Walker. 

Taylor “ Russell. 

During the first half, the honors were about evenly 
divided, and just before half-time Taylor, by a neat 
shot, scored for Medicine. 

Medical stock rose at once, and touched the highest 
point it reached during the evening. Science, how 
ever, were in no way disheartened, as, indeed, their 
individual play had been quite equal to that of their 
opponents, while they seemed to play in rather better 
combination. 

The teams faced the puck, for the second half, 
with stern determination to win stamped on every 
face. 

After ten minutes’ hard play, in Avhich Holden, 
the Walshes, and Irving played beautifully for Medi- 
cine ; while Russell, Srnaill, and Jamieson seemed 
to be always on hand, the first game was scored 
for Science by a very pretty combination play, in 
which Russell, Srnaill, and Jamieson took part, and 
H. Walker scored. Time, 10 minutes. 

The puck was immediately faced for the third 
game; Bickerdike getting the drop, passed to Pink, 
who gave it to Russell, who carried it past two op- 
ponents, and then gave Jamieson a chance to score, 
which he promptly accepted. 

The third game was commenced, and seemed to be 
a repetition of the second, Jamieson again scoring. 
Time, 1 minute. 

They pulled themselves together for the fourth 
game, and some grand rushes were the order on both 
sides, Holden and W. Walsh doing their utmost for 
Medicine, while Russell seemed to be simply irre- 
sistible, and Srnaill at point, time and time again 



96 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1890. 



snatched victory from the Meds. Drummond, in 
goal, was ever alert, and several times stopped seem- 
ingly impossible shots. 

Science are now champions in both football and 
hockey, a fact of which every member of the Faculty 
should feel exceedingly proud. 

In the Faculty of Arts there are some 200 stu- 
dents, in Medicine about 300, while in Science there 
are only some 72. These figures speak for them- 
selves, and need no comment. 

Another point remains, and that is, as was pointed 
out in the Med. vs. Science football match, there 
were some eight or ten of the first team on the 
Medical side, while Science had but four. In the 
Med. vs. Science hockey match there were four from 
the first team among the Medical representatives, 
and but two with Science. Can it be explained? 

G. McDougall, 3rd year Arts, officiated very accept- 
ably as umpire. 



Dominions vs. McGill. 

This was the maiden match for the Dominions, 
under their new name, they were formerly the 
Crystals. The match was played before a large 
gathering of spectators, but McGill was almost 
wholly represented by a contingent from the young- 
est faculty, vi7.,that of Veterinary Medicine (where 
were Medicine, Arts and Science ?) who deserve great 
credit for the college spirit they have shown since 
they were amalgamated with McGill, and the other 
faculties would do well to take “ a pointer ” from 
them. 

The teams were as follows : — 

Dominion. Position. McGill. 

E. Scanlon Goal E. Irving. 

A. Clapperton Point W. Smaille. 

A. D. Ritchie Cover Point T. N. Walsh, 

J. MacDonald Forwards H. Kinghorn. 

D. Brown “ W. E. Walsh. 

K- Laing “ H. Y. Russell. 

W. Laing “ F. Fry. 

W. Hinton Umpires W. Pink. 

Referee, J. Robertson. 

The play was fast and interesting throughout the 
match, and there is a very marked improvement in 
McGill play since the last match, but they must in- 
dulge in more team, and less individual play before 
they can compare favorably with the city teams. 

In the first half, the Dominions scored two games, 
to McGill s nothing, Brown and MacDonald doin nr 
the needful. ° 

In the second half, shortly after play began Smaille 
raised the puck from center-rink, and Scanlon in his 
endeavour to stop it put it through. 

During the remainder of the match the play was 
very fast, and Brown and Ritchie each added another 
game to the Dominion score. 

The match was a great treat from the spectators’ 
point ot view, there being absolutely no rough or un- 
gentlemanly play. Score, Dominions 4, McGill 1. 



M. G. U. A. A. 

The annual meeting of the McGill University Ath- 
letic Association was held on Saturday the 24th inst., 
in the Arts building, a large number of members be- 
ing present. The meeting being called to order, the 
retiring secretary, Peers Davidson, read his annual 
report, which contained many valuable suggestions ; 
among others the advisability of having more method 
in the manner of commencing work at the beginning 
of each session, a reform which is much needed. 
He also mentioned the likelihood of McGill soon 
owning a gymnasium, equal to the best, on a very 
convenient site. The Treasurer’s report was next 
read and showed a very fair balance, yet very much 
smaller than that of former years. The accounts hav- 
ing been audited the report was adopted. 

The election of officers for the coming season was 
then proceeded with and resulted as follows : — 

President, Sir Wm. Dawson, L.L.D., unanimously 
re-elected. 

Vice-President, A. R. Hall. Law. 

Secretary, D. B. Holden, B.A. Med. 

Treasurer, Professor B. J. Harrington, B.A., Ph.D., 
unanimously re-elected. 

Assistant Treasurer, J. T. Whyte. Arts. 

After some routine business and a good deal of 
discussion, the meeting was adjourned. 

It only remains now for the different faculties to 
elect their two representatives each, for the general 
committee for ’90 and ’91 to be ready for work. 



THE MEDICALS’ TRAMP. 

The weather was inclined to be rough on Saturday 
night, and an uncertain condition of the atmosphere, 
with snow flurries and chances of hard walkin" 
through deep snow, kept some, and the terror of an 
examination in Physiology on Monday, kept others 
away; and so, at 5.45, only 50 of the 110 or so who 
had promised to go, turned up. Beers, ’91, led the 
way, headed by the trumpeters, who blew blasts 
which were sufficient to make the “subs.” turn over 
and wonder if that were the trump they were told 
about. Of course, Beers is nothing if not original, 
and so insisted on taking the track and going over 
the mountain, past the slide, through about sixteen 
or eighteen inches of snow, which was all right for 
those in mocassins and long stockings, but rather 
hard on those who had their boots on. A few 
minutes after seven they arrived at their destination, 
and the all-important question — “ Is supper ready ?’’ 
was almost the universal one. Luckily, inside of a 
few minutes an answer in the affirmative was brought, 
and about 50 hungry trampers sat down to roast btef’ 
ham, rolls, coffee, pies, etc. After supper, a whiff of 
a fragrant cigar, in an arm-chair, with legs stretched 
in front of the spacious ingle-side, and watching the 
faint blue cloud floating to the ceiling. In the all- 
absorbant feeling of comfort and good-will towards all 
men, banishes for the moment all recollections of 
lectures and examinations, and in the silent com- 
munion we hold with those faces of old-time friends 
we see in the changeful flickering of the glowin^ coal 



1890.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



97 



we only know “ that it is good to be here ;” and the 
fact that we have a three mile tramp through the snow, 
home, disturbs us not — “sufficient for the day is the 
evil thereof ” — and tor the present we are quite con- 
tent to sit still and build castles in the air. 

“ Now he’s got you, Gunter — no, by Jove ! — did 
ye see that canon? Well done, old boy!” So 
some of the boys are playing billiards, others are at 
pool, while a tremendous tramping overhead gives the 
idea that some sport is going on ; so, throwing the 
cigar away, and going upstairs, a cry of “look-out, 
forwards ! ” and a general scrimmage, and we have a 
veritable football team game. Just now a couple 
start a swinging waltz, the contagion spreads. Hayes, 
seeing that someone has been listening, redoubles his 
efforts on the piano, and soon the whole room is oc- 
cupied by the dancers ; but their exertions begin to 
tell, and one by one they drop off and take a seat; 
and now Feron, accompanied by Wells (of the Faculty 
of Comparative Medicine) on a guitar, give us a song, 
“ If the waters could speak.” At this juncture “the 
father of the year” comes in, and is duly bounced — 
not very high, though — and then a walking match 
takes place. Gorrol tries hard, but Maurice tries 
harder, and comes in half a lap ahead ; but, alas ! he 
knows not when to stop, and goes on alone for another 
lap ! Bowie next gave us an exhibition of what he 
could do on the mouth-organ, during which Mr. Bot- 
trel was observed standing at the door, and coming 
into the room at the conclusion of the harmonica solo, 
was given three and a tiger. In reply, Mr. Bottrel 
said “ he just wished to say a word or two with re- 
ference to the membership tickets. He had seen, in 
a previous issue of this paper, that lie had presented 
the tickets, but that this was a misunderstanding; 
he had merely suggested it and helped to carry it out, 
and that they had their own professors, principally, 
to thank. In conclusion, he welcomed those who 
came for the first time, and hoped that* the present 
3rd year, when they were 4th year men, would do all 
in their power to make the Club House a popular 
winter resort.” Chabot here sang “ Lac St. Pierre,” 
followed by Feron, who was duly presented with a 
bouquet in the form of a whisk, with several layers 
of newspaper wrapt round it. The tug-of-war rope 
was now handed down, and R. Webster, Evans, Ellis, 
Parker, and Kingston thought they could pull Kellie, 
Clarke, Beers, Bisset, and Webster, but found their 
mistake when pulled all over the floor. After an- 
other song and chorus, Parker and Kellie faced each 
other in a cock-fight, and amid intense excitement 
Parker won the first toss, and after some 10 minutes 
Kellie’s patience gave out, and Parker again tossed 
him over. In the elephant races, Curtis and Lambert 
won, after several trials. The first three-legged race 
resulted in a tie between Harris and Clarke and Lam- 
bert and Armstrong. In the second heat, Lambert 
and Armstrong fell when turning, and Harris and 
Clarke came in victorious. Another song and chorus 
gave the boys time to get their wind for a dance, and 
then formed up for two sets. We must not forget 
an important item in the evening’s programme — a 
fancy drill march, under command of Evans, ’90, and 
Walker, ’93, and which was very commendably done. 



In the mean time the clock hands had been travel- 
ling slowly along, and now stood at five to ten. On 
a vote being taken, it was decided to remain until 
10.30. For some few minutes previously a thought- 
ful looking man had been surveying the scene, and 
judging (rightly) that after the active exercises in- 
dulged in, a ride would be preferred to a walk in, 
approached Evans, and intimated his willingness to 
take the crowd in for 15c. a head. “Agreed,” was 
the vote, and at 10.30, about, the band struck up, and 
as the sleigh was moving, it may be safe to presume 
the notes were in harmonic progression, and so we 
reached home. “Tired?” Well, yes; but then, 
that’s what we went out for. “ Did you enjoy your- 
selves?” We did. “What about the supper?” 
Well — apart from the chronic kickers, who will kick 
at anything, from a football up, and who would feel 
grieved and hurt if were nothing to kick about — 
apart from these, there is really ground for complaint 
that the supper was not really worth what it, cost, viz., 
60c. a head, but it must be borne in mind that 25c. 
of the 60c. was for the room, and only 35c. for this 
supper ; and taking it all in all, it was as good, if not 
better, than could be obtained in the city at the same 
price, and there was plenty of it ; and further, over 
100 promised to come, and arrangements were made 
accordingly, and only 50 showed up ; whereas, had 
the hundred come, it would have been much cheaper 
individually. When the Emeralds had their supper 
about a fortnight ago, it cost 50c. a head. In the 
meantime, I would suggest that the committee which 
takes the tramp in hand next year, will come to some 
definite arrangements about the menu card before the 
night of the tramp. 

With reference to the Club House itself, it has ad- 
mirable accommodation, and is comfort itself; but 
we would criticise one portion of it — that is the bar. 
It seems a pity that while the Club House is run on 
temperance principles (and may the day never come 
on which it will be otherwise), it seems a pity that 
the art of mixing pleasing temperance drinks should 
be left in the hands of those who sell them to induce 
the sale of demoralising and brain-destroying bever- 
ages. The ginger-ale, cider, or ginger-beer on sale 
would warrant one in a strong suspicion that the 
bottle had just been taken off the stove, and is served 
in a small, thick glass, which has to be allowed to 
settle (effervesce) before it can be filled ; as a result, it 
is warm, insipid, and not only tasteless, but rather 
nauseating. Why not make our temperance drinks 
as pleasing to the palate as possible ? If only half 
the care were bestowed on temperance drinks that is 
given to alcoholic mixtures by bar-tenders and others, 
the temptation would not be so great to call for some- 
thing that had a taste to it. 

In conclusion, I think the complete rest and change 
of scene for one evening is invaluable as a refresher 
to the brain, and one returns to his books twice as 
intelligently as if just free from lectures ; for this 
reason, it is to be hoped, that next time a goodly 
turn-out to the Club House will take place. 

Omegha. 



98 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1890. 



Personals. 



College Ulorl&. 



Dr. Stewart has been out of town since Friday. 

St. Geo. J. Boswell, B.A.Sc., 74, is Harbour Engi- 
neer of Quebec. 

A. B. Owens, 1st year Law, has just recovered from 
an attack of diphtheria. 

R. C. Smith, B.C.L., also has cause to be congratu- 
lated upon his joining the Grand Army. 

A. P. Low, B.A.Sc., ’82, and D. B. Dowling, 
B.A.Sc., ’83, were in town to attend the annual 
meeting of the C S.C.E. 

T. W. Lesage, BtA.Sc., ’85, has become a benedict. 
There are three more Science men on deck. The 
Science editors are about to start a matrimonial 
column. 

J. E. LeRossignol, B.A., ’88, sends us, from Ger- 
many, a document which we take to be very valu- 
able, and accordingly publish the title, at least we 
suppose it to be the title; anyway, it is all that is 
to found on the page where that announcement 
should be : — “ Verzeichniss der im Winter-Halbjahre 
1889-90, auf der Universitat Leipzig zu Haltenden 
Vorlesungen. Der Anfang der Vorlesungen ist auf 
den 15. October, der Schluss auf den 15. Miirz fest- 
gesetzt.” We confess to a great deal of edification 
from its perusal, and obligation to LeRossignol for 
his thoughtfulness. 



College journalism originated at Dartmouth in 1800 
with Daniel Webster as one of the editors. 

The freshman class at Williams have adopted this 
yell: “Hekaton, hekaton, ’rah, ’rah, ’rah, tria, kai, 
enenakonta.” 

Toronto University Football team, have got a new 
wrinkle in the way of rushing. McGill teamcongia- 
tulates the groom and sympathise ? with she bride. 

Dr Caroline Schultz, the first woman to be received 
as a house surgeon in the French hospital, is en- 
gaged to be married to her colleague, Dr. Bertillon. 

An examination in gymnastics is now required of 
Johns Hopkins undergraduates before the degree will 
be given. Vaulting, jumping and simple exercises 
on the parallel bar and ladder are among the require- 
ments. 



LITERATURE. 

W. H. F. SHARSW00D, 

Publishers’ Agent, 

orders FOR 180 St. JaMES StREET, 

BOOKS, 

PERIODICALS, City and District Bank Building , 

STATIONERY, 

Promptly Executed. MONTREAL. 



Between the Lectures. 



“ Jimmy got his hair cut.” 

Four lectures a week in Pathology is a pretty good 
jog for feeble third year men. 

Pillows and blankets may now be obtained for use 
during lectures. 3rd year Chemistry please note. 

Who stole the bottle of ginger-ale at the Club 
House on Saturday night, while getting change for 
a $10 bill ? 

In last week’s lectures on alcohol it was to be 
noticed and commended that no specimen was passed 
around the class as is customary with other drugs. 

The sigh of the gas engine and the whiz of the 
dynamo is to be heard in the main building. We 
are glad to note the practical ability of the Prof, of 
Physics. 

The latest is a vague story of the wonderful saga- 
city of a horse, who, with several of the leading spirits 
from that Faculty, went out on an expedition “ to 
paint the town.” 

Some men have an unquenchable thirst for 
notoriety. The third year man who turned the 
organ crank, and the freshy who passed round 
the hat, on the corner of University and Sherbrooke, 
a few days ago, are included in the above category. 
This is also a besetting fault of the fourth year 
men. 



OUR ADVERTISERS. 



PAGE, 

Armstrong & Radford, . . . 101 

Ashford, C., . . . 102 

Atwater k Co., . . . .88 

Birks, H., k Co., . . • . 102 

Chapleau k Co., . . . .88 

Clarke, fl. W., . . . 102 

Gumming k Brewis, . . . 100 

Doughty* A. G., . . . 101 

Drysdale, Wm., k Co., . . .88 

Dyer, W. A., k Co., ... 88 

Featherston, A. M., . . . 101 

Gerth, E. A., . . . . 100 

Gray, Hy. R., . . .100 

Greenshields k Co., ... 88 

Gurney, E. and C., k Co., . . 99 

Henderson, John k Co., . . 99 

Jensen, J. L., . . . 99 

Lyman, Sons k Co., ... 99 

Macaulay, W. B. T., . . .101 

Montreal Steam Laundry Co., . . 102 

Murray, Wm., . . . .101 

MacBean, D. B. A., . . . 100 

McEntyre k Son, . . . .88 

McLaren, W. D., . . . 102 

Ness, T. W., . . . # 99 

Nightingale, D., . * . 100 

Nordheimer k Co., . . .102 

Notman k Son, . . . 102 

Payne Geo., . . . .100 

Periard, A., . . . . 100 

Reid, Robert, . . . .100 

Robertson & Co., . . . 33 

Ross, Hugh, . . . .101 

Sharswood, W. H. F., . . 93 

Sheppard, Geo. J., . . # jqO 

Summerhayes k Walford, . . 101 

Tarrante, Sami., . . .101 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



99 



Home Medical Batteries 

— AND — 

ELECTRO-MEDICAL APPARATUS, 

ELECTRIC BELLS, BATTERIES, ANNUNCIATORS, MOTORS, 
EXPERIMENTAL COILS, 

Learners’ Telegraphic Instruments, &c. 

EVERYTHING IN THE ELECTRICAL LINE. 

T. W. NESS, 694 Craig St., Montreal. 

Type- writers, Copygraphs, and Office Supplies. 


SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS 

and CHEMICAL APPARATUS. 

tfull gtodk or) Hai\d, Imported 

©fredt fron\ tl\e I^ehdip^ 

of tl\e Wotld. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. 

LYMAN, SONS & CO., 

384 ST. PAUL STREET. 




JOHN HENDERSON & CO., 


R0¥/lIi DYE WORKS, 


Hatters aii furriers, 


706 CRAIG- STREET. 


229 ST. JAMES STREET. 




• 

Special Agents for College Trenchers, &c. 



E. & C. GURNEY & CO., 

3S5 eSc 387 St. Street, Montreal 



STOVES, 

GRATES, 

RANGES, 

SCALES. 



GURNEY’S 



C elebrated Hot Water Heaters 



Cast Bundy Radiators. 




Hot Air Furnaces 

FOR 

Coal or Wood. 



ALL GOODS GUARANTEED. 



Circulars on Application. 



385 & 387 

St. Paul Street, 



MONTREAL. 



100 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



THE MOST CONVENIENTLY SITUATED 

t 5 !! loto^jr ajjfiic Studio 

FOR McGILL COLLEGE, 



A. PERIARD, 




IS THAT OF 

CU1HMING & BREWIS 

117 and 119 Mansfield St. 

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 

Telephone 4620. Satisfaction Guaranteed. 

“ Our Little Favorite,” One dollar per doz. 



AND 

• • ■ LEGAL STATIONER, • • • 

23 ST. JAMES STREET, 

(Near the Court House,) 

MOUTEEAL. 



Established 1859. 

IS- 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST 
ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STREET, 

( CORNER LA GA U CHETIERE, ) 

Montreal. 

The Dispensing of Physicians’ Prescriptions a Specialty. 
Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers sup- 
plied with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 

N.B.— Observe New Address. 



ROBERT REID, 

Montreal Marble and Granite Works, 

Cor. ST. CATHERINE AND ALEXANDER. 

Monumental Si Cemetery Work of every description. 

WOOD MANTLE-TILES FOR FIRE-PLACES AND FLOORING, 

AND ALL KINDS OF 

Fire-Place Furniture. 



Tie Modern Turkish or Rom Bath, 

140 ST. MONIQUE ST., foot of McGill College Ave. 

LARGE AND COMPLETE. 

Purifies the Blood I Secures Perfect Cleanliness ! 
A Luxury without a Sting ! 

Gentlemen received from 6 to 8 a.m., 2 to 9 p.m. 
Ladies, “ “ 10 to 12 noon. 

D. B. A. MacBEAN, M.D. 



Doctors’ and Students’ Headquarters 

— FOR — 

Spiller & Co.’s (London, E.) Du Khedive Extra Fine 
CIGARETTES. 

Lowe & Co.’s THOMPSON PIPES and others. 

Largest and most Complete Stock of CANES in the City. VIRGINIA 
and TURKISH TOBACCOS. 

E, A. GERTH, 

2235 St. Catherine Street, Queen’s Block. 

GEORGE PAYNE, 

CUN MAKER, 

687 CRAIG STREET, West of Bleury Street, - MONTREAL. 

Maker of the Genuine Racing* Skates. 

PF^Repairs Promptly Attended to. N.B.— Skates Ground. 




Banjos & Guitars. 

Sole agent for the celebrated 

“BRUNO” GUITAR 

AND 

Dobson “ Victor ” Banjo. 

Guitars with Patent Head 
from $5 to $50 each. 
Banjos with latest im- 
provements 

from $ 7.50 to $50 each. 

Best Russian Gut Strings, 



Musical Instruments of every 
description repaired. 

(GEOROE J. SHEPPARD 

2282 St. Catherine St. 

N.B. — Special discount to 
Students. 




D. NIGHTIMGALE ? 

MANUFACTURER OF AND DEALER IN 

Pool & Billiard Tables, & Billiard Supplies, 

1742 NOTRE DAME ST., MONTREAL, Canada. 



Improved Billiard Cushions. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



101 



NOW READY ! 

A New Book in Shorthand: 

“The Idylls of the King.” 

By ALFRED LORD TENNYSON. 

An Eugraved Shorthand Version of the above by Arthur G. 
Doughty, beautifully Illustrated, is now completed. Printed 
in led and black, on vellum paper. Cloth and leather binding. 

All communications and orders to be addressed to 

A. C. TROTTER, 

O. Box 173-4, - ©M/trea.1. 

TUTORING. 

MR. W. B. T. MACAULAY, 

EDINBURGH UNIVERSITY AND HIGH SCHOOL, MONTREAL. 



RING UP ! BELL TELEPHONE No. 1237 

FEDERAL “ “ 693, 

For Prices of Photographs 

OR TO MAKE YOUR APPOINTMENTS. 

Exceptionally Good Rate to Students, and none but the 
Fiuest Work sent out from our Studios. 

Photos, of Professors on Sale ! 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD, 

1 BLEURY STREET. 

)BtIT YQUR ( = 

Boots and Shoes, 

Rubbers, Overshoes and Moccasins 

— AT — 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 



Students fitted for Matriculation into all Faculties of the 
University and for other Examinations. 

37 McGill College Avenue. 



ARMSTRONG X RADFORD, 

Haberflashers and Outfitters, 

ALWAYS IN POSSESSION OF 

Latest Novelties and conceits in Gentle- 
men's W ear. 

2246 ST. CATHERINE STREET, ( Opposite Victoria St.) 

TELEPHONE No. 4574. 

Agents for 

Canada Steam Laundry and Dye Works, 

1494 ST. CATHERINE STREET. 
Special attention paid to Students’ orders. 




SHOE STORES. 

UP TOWN : QUEEN'S HALL BLOCK, 

2243 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 
The West End 

HAIR -DRESSING AND HAIR -CUTTING 

AND 

Shampooning Establishment, 

SAMUEL TARRANTE 

From England, 

2305 & 2307 St. Catherine St. 

Tie Place for all tie Students to go for a Gcod Hair-Cut, &c. 



WM. MURRAY, 

MANUFACTURER AND IMPORTER OF 

Ifitte | furs <nuT §jfcd& 

NO. 2202 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 

( Opposite the English Cathedral, ) 

MONTREAL. 

N.B. — Liberal Discount to Students. 



HUGH ROSS, 

[Successor to J. D. Anderson], 

MERCHANT TAILOR, 

206 St. James St., Montreal, 

Has this season on hand a beautiful Stock of Goods of all kinds, 
such as this house has always been famed for. 

Clerical, Advocates' and Academical Gowns. 

MILITARY UNIFOKMS AND HIGHLAND COSTUMES 
A SPECIALTY. 

Inspection Invited. Special Discount to Students. 



102 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



wjl N0’IW § 3®N, 



Photographers, 

STUDEA'TS’ PORTRAITS 

CLASS GROUPS 

PR I PATE GROUPS 
; PORTRAITS OF PROFESSORS : 
COLLEGE PIER'S, 8fc. 

A .1 IBletje-y Stbbet, 

MONTREAL. 

Montreal Steam Laundry Co’y. 

LIMITiCD, 

21 and 23 ST. ANTOINE ST., - MONTREAL. 

The largest and most complete Laundry in the Dominion / 

Satisfaction Guaranteed at the Lowest Prices. 

SPECIAL RATES OFFERED TO FAMILIES, HOTELS, COL- 
LEGES, AND ALL PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS. 

Slurts, Collars and Cuffs made to order at reasonable prices ! 

TELEPHONE Nos., Bell. Federal, T. H. LOVE, 

580 &. 2482. 1683. Manager. 



THE GENUINE 

COOK’S Prieitd 
BAKING POWDER 

Is the BEST VALUE in the market, is made from 
the PUREST INGREDIENTS, gives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to the user, and should he pre- 
ferred by all careful housekeepers. Retailed 
everywhere. 



O. ASHFORD, 

Medical Bookseller and Stationer, 

KEEPS IN STOCK 

All the MEDICAL TEXT BOOKS used in McGill College, 
besides a large variety of NOTE BOOKS, at 
prices to give satisfaction. 

Stylo Pens and Fountain Pens, 75c., 10 p. c. disc't., with others more expensive 

HISTOLOGICAL SPECIMEN BOXES, COVER GLASSES, SLIDES, &C. 

Montreal G-e^- Hospital ^laa.r3ocLa.copocia., 25c. 

G. ASHFORD, 

Near University st. 81 8 IDoychester St. , Montreal. 



44tli "YEAR. NORDHEIMER’S- ESTABLISHED 1845. 

PIANOS * AND • ORGrAKTS 

OF THE STANDARD CELEBRATED MAKERS 

STEINWAY, CHICKERING, HAINES, NORDHEIMER. 

THE 

Public are Invited to Call & Inspect our New Stock & Compare Values. 

A. «£ S. NORDHEIMER, 

213 ST. vT-A-IMI ES STREET, TlOaSTTP^HlA-X-i. 

HENRY B1RKS » CO. jewellers, &q. ~ 

Fine Jewellery, Silver Ware, Watches, Clocks, &c, 

A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF ARTICLES SUITABLE FOR PRIZES, &c. 

235 and 237 St. James Street, - - Montreal. 

THE UNIVERSAL 238 and 240 S t. James Street, Mont real. 

G. W . CLARKE, Importer of* 

Fine Fancy Goods, * Art Metal Ware, * Fine Leather Goods 

ALL KINDS OF RICH GOODS SUITABLE FOR WEDDING, BIRTHDAY and CHRISTMAS PRESENTS. 

Fine Art Christmas Cards. 




