
— 



Yol. II. Montreal, December 15, 1875. No. 4. 



CONTENTS. 



PAG1. 

Literary. 

Notes on Science 39 

Musical Criticism 42 

'Correspondence 43 

Editorial. 

University Dinner .44 

Answer to Correspondents 44 



PACK. 

Obituary 45 

Skating Club 45 

Snow Snoe Club 45 

University Literary Society 46. 

Personals 46 

College Items 46 

College Song 34 

Advertisements 37, 38, 47, 48 



1 HE McGill Gazette is published semi-monthly during the College Year by the undergraduates of the University. 
Terms , $1.00 per annum; Single Copies, 10 Cents. For sale at Drysdalds, Daw oris and Hill's . Subscriptions and 
Advertisements to be sent to the Secretary, McGill College. Contributions should be directed to the Editors, McGill 
College. 

The Gazette requests contributions of tales, essays, and all suitable literary matter from University men. It 
' will open its columns to any controller sial matter connected with the College, provided the communications are written 
in a gentlemanly manner. 

All matter intended for publication must be accompanied by the name of the writer in a scaled envelope, which 
will be opened if the contribution is inserted, but will, be destroyed if rejected. This rule will be strictly adhered to. 

II. H. WOOD, Secretary. 



SAVAGE, LYMAN Sr CO. 

Have received from ULYSSE NARDIN, of Locle, 

a Case of 

FINE WATCHES 

in Gold and Silver Cases in every variety of manufacture. 
Also an assortment of 

FINE DIAMONDS, EMERALDS, RUBIES, &c., 

which can be mounted, at short notice, on the premises 
ALSO IN STOCK : 

Their usual Assortment of RICH JEWELLERY, 
SILVER AND ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, 
CLOCKS, BRONZES, &c., &c. 

226 & 228 St. James Street . 



PROFESSIONAL. 



A. WRIGHT, L.D.S., 

SURGEON-DENTIST, 

38 BEAVER HALT; TERRACE. 






J. D. ANDERSON, 







MECHANICS’ HALL BUILDING, 



206 ST. JAMES STREET , 
MONTREAL. 



AL WA YS IN STOCK, SEASONABLE GOODS \ 
, SELECTED FOR A 
FIRST-CLASS CUSTOM BUSINESS. 

John C. Becket, 

STEAM 

Book and Job Printer, 

658 & 660 CRAIG STREET, 

. MONTREAL. 



on/ 




p-s s 



py 

OAXS* 



J 



3« 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



<3-0 TO 

Walsh’s Clothing House, 

THE GREAT 

Custom Clothing and Tailoring Establishment, 

463 NOTRE DAME STREET, 

Near McGill Street, MONTREAL. 

A large assortment of Gentlemen’s, Youths’ and 
Boys’ Fine Ready-Mades always in stock. 

Prices very moderate. A call solicited. 

W. WALSH k CO. 



S. R. PARSONS, 

DEALER IN 

FURNITURE 

IN ALL ITS VARIETIES, 

AND OF THE 

LATEST STYLES. 

Brackets, Slipper Racks, Fancy Chairs, 

&C., &C., ScC., j. 

Nos. 603 and 605 Craig Street 

( In rear of the new Post Office) 

MONTREAL. 



LORGE & CO., 



FIRST PREMIUM PRACTICAL 




I 

» 

Wholesale and Retail 



No. 21 St. Lawrence Street, i 



NEW LIST ! ; 

Baldwin and Walker’s best Four-ply Fingering Yam 

$1.38 per lb. 

John Paton k Sons’ best Three-ply Scotch Alloa 



Wheeler Yarn 90c. 

Canadian Four-ply Fingering Yarn . .. ..75c. 

Best English Cocoa-nut Malting 30c. 

English Stair Oil-cloth uj£c. 

English Floor Oil-cloth, yard wide 28c. 

Lace Curtains, good quality... $1 05 per pair. 

Lace Curtains, 3^ yards long $1 25 

Lace Curtains, four yards long .$2 65 



Three Cases White Quilts, to be sold very cheap this 
week, from $1 25 to $4 each. * • - • • * 

Two Cases Colored Cloth Table-covers, from 50 cents 
to $7 each. 

One Case Piano Covers, from $6 50 to $12 each. 

NOTICE . — We are selling goods much below value 
for X’MAS PRESENTS. 



MONTREAL. 



S- CAESLEY, 

K«. S09 NOTRE DAME STREET. 



437 and 439 Notre Dame Street. 



TO SUBSCRIBERS. 



GrO TO 

CheapsidE 

FOR YOUR 

BEY GOOBS, 

. And tell the Salesman that your are buying goods in 

answer. to an advertisement in the McGill Gazette., 

§ • • 

A. A. MURPHY. 



We would remind all those to whom copies of the 
Gazette have been sent that subscriptions are now due 
and that after the FIRST of JANUARY no more 
papers will be sent to unpaid subscribers. We hope to 
receive a large amount in response to this notice. 

SUBSCRIPTION, $1.00 PER ANNUM. 

Remittances to be sent to 

HOLTON WOOD, 

. .. . Faculty of Arts, 

McGill College. 



The McGill Gazette. 

Vol. //., Neiu Series. McGill College , December fjt/i, 1875. No. 4 , 



LITERARY. * 

SKETCHES OF THE HISTORY OF 
SCIENCE. 

During the year 1873-74, in the University 
Gazette one paper of the course under the 
above title, appeared and consisted of some brief 
notes on “ P2arly Eastern Science. The writer 
proposed to follow up the subject in succeed- 
ing numbers but his papers did not appear, as 
the publication of the Gazette was suspended 
till the present Session. Some of his manu- 
scripts of the series have fallen to us as a 
legacy and we propose to publish them. — 
Editors. 

II. 

SCIENCE AMONG THE GREEKS. 

BY J. W. S. 

By whom Greece was first settled is not 
known. The most ancient race, of which we 
have any authentic records, is the Pelasgi. 
Thucydides says that even their successors 
consisted of many predatory and barbarous 
tribes. The most advanced state of civilization 
of the East was not without influence among 
them, and it probably, to a limited degree, crept 
into Greece before the historic epoch. 

As early as 1832 B.C., there is recorded the 
inundation of Beotia and part of Attica, caused 
by the overflow of the waters of Lake Copais, 
and that canals had been made across Mount 
Ptoon to carry off the superfluous waters of 
the lake. 

The Greek mythology was engrafted with 
the Egyptian Philosophy, and the scientific 
mysteries of the priests of the latter nation 
seem soon to have become public property? 
and as early as Homer the mass of the 
Grecian people appears to have been liber- 
ally educated and to have had greater free- 
dom than any of the contemporary nations. 
Homer, himself, has shown the proofs of 



having studied Comparative Anatomy and 
Botany as well as the agricultural and industrial 
Arts. 

The practice of medicine was probaby intro- 
duced from the East at an early date ; but the 
personages of yEsculapius, Orpheus, and Chi- 
ron were probably mythical, ^Esculapius was 
believed to be the incarnate father of medicine, 
having been taught by Apollo himself, and 
could not only cure diseases, but also raise 
men from the dead ; as he was depopulating 
the infernal regions very rapidly to the great 
discomfort of the god of those unpleasant 
abodes, Plato obtained from Jupiter the 
means of striking him with a thunderbolt. 
^Esculapius is said to have left two sons in 
possession of his knowledge, Machion, of 
Surgery, and Podalirius of internal diseases. 
Both of these sons accompanied the Trojan 
Expedition. 

Hesiod, in his Theogony, gives a symbolic 
explanation of the creation of the world, and of 
the birth of the gods in a genealogical form, 
but these are only derived from the Eastern 
ideas. Among the earliest philosophers were 
Thales, Pythagoras, Democritus. 

Thales (B. C., 636-546) was the founder of 
the Ionic School, and was the first teacher of 
Philosophy in Greece. He professed a syste- 
matic idea of the formation of the world from 
the waters, and demonstrated that the earth 
was a sphere, explained eclipses, fixed 365 
days for the solar year, introduced a sun-dial 
into Sparta, discovered the pyro-electric proper- 
ties of diamonds and amber, made the first 
geographical charts, and so diversified were 
his studies that he even entered the grave-yards 
to investigate the mysteries of the human 
organization. This scientific investigator died 
at the advanced age of ninety years. 

Anaximander (born 610, B. C.) was a pupil 
of Thales. His philosophy is said to have 
been the first written production, but his 



40 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



works are lost and are only known by the 
references made to them in the writings of 
Plutarch and others. Through all of these, 
there runs the idea of the helplessness of the 
human infant, which required an embryonic 
connection between the first human individuals 
and some pre-existing animals, thus teaching 
the doctrine of Evolution 2,500 years before i 
Leamark. His doctrine is best expressed by 1 
giving one or two quotations. “ Men were in 
the beginning engendered in fish, and after 
they had been nourished and had become able 
to shift for themselves, they were sent forth 
and took to land” ; again, “ Either fish or 
animals like fish spring from heated waters and 
earth, and the human infant grew from those 
to a state, so that when they burst, men and 
women capable of nourishing themselves 
proceeded from them;” Jn another place — 
“Man must have been born of animals of a 
different form, for whereas other animals get 
their food by themselves, man alone requires 
long raising, and no one living, such as he was 
originally, could have been preserved.” 

Pythagoras (born 880? B. C.) travelled for 
some time in the East, and after having resided 
for many years in Egypt, returned to his native 
country. His theories were more philosophical 
than any other known cosmogony, although 
he derived them in part from the Egyptians 
and Orientals. From his general propositions, 
as given by Ovid, it may be stated that 
“Nothing perishes in this world; but things 
merely vary and change their form. To be 
born means simply that a thing begins to be 
something different from what it was before, 
and dying, means ceasing to be the same thing. 
Vet, although nothing retains long the same 
image, the sum of the whole remains constant.” 
This idea of physical transmigration of matter 
he carried to his moral philosophy, and taught 
a spiritual pantheism allied to the transmigra- 
tion of souls with the remembrance of former 
existence. Although he theorized on many 
phenomena of physical geology, he had no 
idea of the progress of life, as indeed neither 
had the other Greek or Roman philoso- 
phers. Pythagoras founded the Italic School. 

As a mathematician he was celebrated. He 



was also aware both of the annual and diurnal 
motion of the earth, of its spherical form, and 
he thought that comets were planet-like stars 
moving round the sun. He appears to have 
had some ideas of the theory of refraction of 
light and heat, and also that of colour. He 
also left a work on horticulture. 

Empedocles, one of the most celebrated dis- 
ciples of Tythagoras left a work on medicinal 
plants, in which he draws the analogy between 
the eggs of animals and the seeds of plants. 

Xenophanes, (B.C. 535) a Colophmion, 
founded the Eleatic School of Speculative Phi- 
losophy. This scientist appears among the 
first who recognized the debris of fossil fishes 
and shells on the highest hills, from which he 
concluded that the waters had covered the 
mountains. Parmenides of this school may be 
considered as the first whose speculations led 
him to believe (professedly) in the non-existence 
of matter, and that the manifestations of it 
emanated from intelligence, but were only the 
result of illusions. 

Another pupil of this last school, Leuceppius 
who revived the Chinese atomic theory, together 
with Democritus (born B.C. 406) founed the 
Atomic School. This latter philosopher in his 
astronomical researches was in advance of his 
day ; he recognized the production of lunar 
spots by the shadows of mountains ; and 
taught that the milky way was a mass of 
stars. Democritus made some important dis- 
coveries in anatomy, and the study of plants 
also occupied his attention. This philoso- 
pher died at the advanced age of 199 years. 

These four schools (Ionic, Italic, Eleatic and 
Atomic) were the foundations of scientific 
study in Greece, but the philosophy was 
reduced to two opposite principles, The Atomic 
explained all phenomena by natural laws, while 
the Eleatic was purely idealistic. 

Socrates, who had been brought up in the 
Atomic schools, incited by the spirit of true 
scientific enquiry, attacked the speculative 
Eleatics and has since been regarded as the 
father of experimental philosophy. Out of 
these schools grew the Asclepiadse (the reputed 
descendents of ^Esculapius), students of the 
medical art, who were more practical than 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



41 



speculative, adopting facts rather than theories, 
The most celebrated of these was Hippocrates, 
who introduced into Greece and advanced the 
knowledge of medicine, which he had acquired 
in the East and in Egypt. In his works he 
has left the description of about one hundred 
and fifty plants used in medicine. 

Aristotle (bom B.C. 384) the greatest of 
the Greek naturalists adopted the experimental 
ideas of Socrates. Observations were alone 
the bases on which he built up his inductions. 
Making use of what he had noticed and what 
scattered facts he had learned from others, he 
made the earliest attempt at a classification 
of Natural History on true scientific principles. 
He divided animals into two classes those 
with red blood, and those without it, alluding 
to vertebrate and invertebrate. The Articula- 
tes he divided into winged and wingless ; the 
former being divided according as they had 
two or four wings. He also recognized the 
distinction between grinders and suckers. He 
gives sometimes a good description of the brain, 
and his knowledge of the nerves far surpass- 
ed that of any of his predecessors. He also 
studied the passages of the veins and arteries, 
and was the first to accompany his descriptions 
with figures. His classification of birds has 
been adopted by modern ornithologists and he 
recognized the analogy of the wings to the fore 
limbs of quadrupeds. His knowledge of Ich- 
thyology was wide and generally correct. His 
treatise on Comparative Anatomy, excepting 
that of Galen, was the only one till the six- 
teenth century of our era. He discovered the 
eye of the mole which for a long time was 
erroneously supposed to be deprived of vision, 
as well as the auditory faculty of fishes and in- 
sects. He wrote on hibernation and reproduc- 
tion of animals, sleep of fishes, metamorphosis 
of insects, and evolution of birds from the eggs. 
He thought that all insects were reproduced 
by spontaneous fission, except spiders, crickets 
and grasshoppers. He is said to have written 
two works on Botany but these have perished. 
In his treatise on Meteorology are found descrip- 
tions of more of the metals, which he consid- 
ered of aqueous origin because they would 
liquify by fusion. Aristotle’s cosmogony was 



Neptunian, having observed the rapid accum- 
ulation of estuarine deposits, and shells in the 
material cast up by the sea, he attributed to 
water the formation of the globe. He con- 
siders the agents of change in the earth’s crust 
capable of effecting a complete revolution, but 
the changes being so slow compared with our 
lives, are overlooked, and he argued that as 
continents and rivers had sprung up so the 
existing must disappear. This doctrine of the 
successive revolutions of the earth was taught 
by the Serbanites, a sect of Arabian Astrono. 
mers, who flourished some centuries before our 
era. According to them the circulation of the 
heavenly Orb is completed over in every 36420 
years, and when each circulation is finished, one 
pair of each species of animals and plants is 
created and the former pair disappears. When 
we consider the age in which Aristotle lived, we 
must admire his transcendent genius ; his 
wondrous attainments excite surprise, having 
laboured under all the difficulties of darkness, 
and even without the invaluable aid of the mi- 
croscope. Still he owed much to Alexander, 
who had been his pupil. When this potentate 
was engaged in his foreign wars, he sent Ari- 
stotle every uncommon specimen with which 
he met, he himself being a lover of nature. 

Theophrastus (B. C. 320) was a disciple 
of Aristotle who bequeathed to him his library. 
Theophrastus was no unworthy heir, and did 
for Botany and Mineralogy nearly as much as 
his great master had done for Natural History. 
Of necessity his ideas of structure were errone- 
ous for want of magnifying instruments. He 
divided plants according to size into trees,, 
shrubs, undershrubs, and herbs, which classifi- 
cation was adopted till the revival of learning. 
He treated of the inflorescence of plants and 
their mode of reproduction, and although only 
with a vague idea of their sexual character, he 
divided them into male and female, but he 
sometimes made those in which the pistil is 
wanting to be the fruit-bearing individuals ; yet 
he perceived many of their true characters and 
observed the productiveness of vegetables, 
length of life, sensibility of diseases peculiar to 
them, and also the insects which feed on them. 
He also filled-in gaps left by Aristotle in his 



42 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



Zoology. His work on Mineralogy is the 
earliest production on that subject extant, and 
in it he divides minerals into stones and earths, 
and classifies them according to their density 
and power of resisting heat ; but his treatise 
on the precious stones is the most interesting. 
I heophrastus was not a stranger to technology; 
he manufactured glass, paints from metallic 
oxides, and mouldings in plaster. He was for 
thirty-five years President of the Lyceum, 
where 2000 youths were being educated. He 
died at an advanced age, regretting the short- 
ness of life, feeling that just as he was begin- 
ning to learn, death must needs intrude. 
Aristotle and Theophrastus are ever to be 
considered the greatest Grecian scientists. 

The troubles into which Greece was thrown 
after the death of Alexander, led finally to the 
banishment of the Savants, who were attracted 
to Alexandria by the largess of Ptolemy Lagus 
the founder ot the celebrated library which 
contained 400,000 volumes. Here the spirit 
of original research gave place to theories, and 
we find that only medicine, medical botany, 
and astronomy were cultivated. When the 
Savants were driven out of Greece, Anatomy 
was severely proscribed, the Greeks in strong 
contrast to the Chinese and Egyptians, had a 
strong dislike to science. 

( To be continued . ) 



The Worthlessness of General Musical 
Criticism. 

Music holds a very singular position among 
those arts which are commonly designated, the 
Fine Arts. Except poetry, music is capable of 
giving simultaneous enjoyment to a far greater 
number of people, than any other art. The same 
composition may be performed at the same 
time in fifty places, and may delight hundreds 
at each place ; whereas a fine picture or statue 
can be enjoyed by only a very few at a time. 
In this then music has decidedly the advantage, 
over its sister arts. But again music labours 
under the disadvantage that in order to give 
pleasure to any number of people it must be 
well interpreted to them. Be the composition 
ever so noble in itself, unless the interpreters 
are capable of understanding and enjoying it 



themselves, and also of overcoming the diffi- 
culties of execution which it presents, the 
audience can experience little or no pleasure 
from the hearing of it. They are in the 
position of one who is looking through a win- 
dow at a beautiful landscape. If the glass be 
free from blisters and blemishes, the observer 
sees the beauty of the scene, just as it is. But 
if there be any imperfections or any peculiar 
tint in the glass, the whole scene becomes 
distorted and discoloured, and the sight of it 
affords little gratification to the beholder. 
This then is the disadvantage under which 

music labours, that the media (the performers) 
through which it is perceived, are very likely 

to give it some peculiar shade, or distortion of 
their own, and thus proportionately to destroy 
the effect intended by the composer. 

In this respect, a painter, or sculptor has 
a great advantage over a musician. For 
both of the former are independent of all inter- 
preters. There is nothing between their work 
and those who perceive it. They are their own 
expositors, and accordingly if any of their works 
are found wanting the blame rests wholly with 
themselves. 

Not so the musician. In all probability 
his works are never heard exactly as they 
would sound if he could himself direct each 
performance of them. We might proceed to 
much greater length in this line of argument, 
but enough has been said to show that music 
is a very complicated phenomenon, and that 
accordingly only a person who has thought on 
the subject, and given it study and time, should 
criticise a musical composition and perfor- 
mance. 

As we have seen that music is, in some 
respects at least, more complicated than any 
other of the fine arts we should suppose that 
a musical critic would of all others require 
great familiarity with his subject* 

Do we find then that this is the case ? On 
the contrary, we are persuaded that no class of 
critics are so thoroughly incompetent as those 
whose duty it is to aid the public in forming 
a just judgment of musical compositions. 

Far from being acquainted with his subject, 
the musical critic may be ignorant of the 



THE NlcGILL GAZETTE. 



43 



commonest musical terms. And a theoretical 
knowledge of music, that is, a knowledge of 
Thorough-bass, Harmony, and Counter point is 
exceedingly rare even among tolerably compe- 
tent critics of music. 

But not only this, the mildest, the feeblest 
musical amateur sets himself up as an authority 
on musical matters, arbitrates to his friends, 
and not infrequently sends articles, called, by 
way of compliment, “critiques” to the daily 
Journals, which articles are unhappily published 
only too often. 

This (self constituted) musical critic how- 
ever is troubled by no feelings of modesty. It 
is quite sufficient for him to have heard a piece 
of music. He at once forms his opinion of 
the composition, and the performance of it, 
and is ready on the slightest provocation, to 
impart his valuable opinion to any person or 
persons whatsoever. If he be ignorant of 
common musical terminology ; he only shines 
the more brightly on this account. The com- 
position maybe the work of a great master; 
he will criticise it none the less complacently. 
And what is remarkable, he will probably never 
entertain the faintest suspicion that he is not 
perfectly qualified to express an opinion on 
this subject. 

Here is a gentleman who has had the inesti- 
mable advantage (to a musical critic) of a good 
musical education. He plays the piano ! In 
other words he has been trying to learn to play 
the piano, for the long space of a year. 
Naturally enough he has not, as yet, achieved 
any very brilliant success as a pianist. He 
feels however, that by virtue of his having 
tortured a harmless instrument, to say nothing 
of his friends, for an hour or two daily, during 
the past twelve months, he is, ipso facto , 
constituted a critic of importance and is much 
aggrieved if you insinuate, ever so mildly that 
he might continue to study music, for some 
time to come, with advantage to himself. 

These two classes of musical or rather 
unmusical critics are as we have said generally 
found among amateurs. But there are many 
who write critiques for the Press, who pos- 
sess little more knowledge of their subject 
and are but little better qualified to express an 



opinion on it than these, as many of the 
musical critiques in daily Journals show. In a 
word, it seems to be generally believed, that 
anybody, or almost anybody who has dabbled 
(if we may be allowed the expression) in music 
for a certain time, has the power of criticising 
any musical composition. Of course we by 
no means wish to imply that all musical 
critics are so incompetent as the above ; but 
merely that a large majority of so called mu- 
sical critics, are in much this condition. 

The singular part of the whole matter is 
that incompetent critics belong much more 
largely to the domain of music than to any 
other art. 

A man who knows little or nothing of draw- 
ing or painting will not be very free with his 
criticisms of a work of this kind in the presence 
of an artist. But our musical man will meet a 
musician, and open a conversation with him 
in these words “Now I don’t know anything 
about music, but it seems to me,” &c., &c. 
His very ignorance seems to make him desi- 
rous to talk about what he does not understand. 

We conclude with the proposition that as no 
critics are perfect, least perfect of all are musi- 
cal critics, who seem to be of the opinion, 
“ where ignorance is bliss, t’were folly to be 
wise.” 

CORRESPONDENCE. 

Editors McGill Gazette. 

Dear Sirs, 

I would call attention to the fact that much 
trouble and annoyance has arisen, that accidents 
may probably ensue from the want of light in the 
lobby and on the staircase in the Arts building. 
Coats, caps, &c. are exchanged in a most promis- 
cuous and free trade manner by the Science 
students on their way home from lectures about 
6. p.m. I hope that the Faculty or authorities 
will see to it that there is a light placed, as an 
accident could easily occur in a crowd of twenty 
or thirty students descending a narrow staircase 
in total darkness. Hoping that the matter 
will be at once remedied, 

I am yours &c. 

MORE LIGHT. 



44 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



The McGill Gazette. 



Wednesday , December 15th, i8yy. 

EDITORS: 

Graduate Editor, R. W. Huntingdon, B.C.L. 



K. H. Hethrington, ’76. 
C. H. Gould, ’77. 

E. Lafleur, 77. 

R. D. McGibbon, ’77 



G. B. Ward, B.A. 



R. Robertson, ’77. 

A. W. Atwater, ’77 
E. Evans, ’78. 
Holton Wood, ’79. 



UNIVERSITY DINNER. 

Last session there was some talk among 
both Graduates and Undergraduates as to the 
advisability of holding some fete, dinner or 
banquet to be managed and attended by both 
of the above mentioned classes. The subject 
has been revived this year and the general op- 
inion seems to be that such a re-union would 
be extremely desirable. With this opinion we 
heartily coincide. The dinner (for all feel 
convinced that this would be the best form for 
the re-union to take) would have the effect 
not only of promoting good feeling among 
Graduates and Undergraduates and of making 
them acquainted with one another but would 
also tend to bring the University before the 
public in a good light. Among the Gradu- 
ates of McGill may be numbered many of the 
foremost men in Canada in the spheres of Law, 
Medicine and Literature, men who reflect 
honour and credit not only on themselves and 
their Alma Mater, but also on the Dominion. 
In view of these facts, it seems to us that could 
such a gathering take place (and its possibility 
is by no means uncertain) it would be produc- 
tive of the most beneficial results. 

We may be permitted to offer a few sugges- 
tions as to the manner of carrying out the 
arrangements for such a gathering. Let a 
meeting of both Graduates and Undergraduates 
be called at once , and let efforts be made to 
secure a full attendance. Then committees 
may be formed to canvass for subscriptions 
&c., &c., and a date fixed upon. 

If the state of the finances would warrant 
such a proceeding, representatives of all the 
Universities in Canada and ol the more pro- 
minent in the United States might be invited 
to attend. 



If all this be done and done heartily we feel 
confident that success must attend the effort. 



Lack of space prevented us from noticing in 
our last mumber a letter we have received, 
which purports to express the sentiments of a 
large number of our students. Our correspon- 
dent censures us severely for introducing Ame- 
ricanisms into the hitherto unsullied pages of 
the Gazette, and inveighs strongly against 
the adoption of these and other barbarisms. He 
instances the expressions ’77, ’76 &c., which he 
is pleased to call unintelligible and barbarous 
signs, and he conjures us to return to the cum- 
brous ‘ third year,’ ‘ fourth year ’ See. which, to 
our mind, are not a whit more connotative, and 
not nearly as convenient. If our correspondent 
had taken the trouble to consult a few numbers 
of the old Gazette he would not have taxed us 
with introducing innovations, since these ser- 
viceable signs were regularly used by the former 
Editors. 

As regards the words ‘ Sophomore,’ ‘Junior ’ 
and ‘ Senior,’ it is perfectly evident that they are 
not destined to take root here, and we shall 
accordingly make no efforts to transplant such 
unpalatable words. A second year man actually 
assailed us the other day with the query : 
“What does Soph, mean anyhow? does it stand 
for Sophocles ?” We may state, in palliation, 
that these words found their way into our 
columns in consequence of theTrequent perusal 
of American exchanges, and without any des- 
ign on our part of introducing them here. 

We are far from desiring to substitute terms 
of foreign growth for the time-honoured expres- 
sions which have always been current among 
us. At the same time it cannot be denied that 
the repertory of words which we may claim as 
our own is exceedingly limited, and by no means 
adequate to our wants. If those who censure us 
are as clever mintmaster's as they are querulous 
faultfinders, we may hope that our needs will 
be speedily remedied, and we shall be the first 
to adopt new terms of home growth provided 
they are as commodious and concise as those 
which we have thought it no crime to borrow. 

There is one thing, however, which does not 
speak in favour of our correspondent. The 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



45 



spirit of the letter throughout is one which we are 
loth to regard as shared by most of the students. 

The writer takes umbrage at our “ venting 
our pent-up admiration, in the exclamation 
“ Fair Harvard and he evinces an aversion 
to Americanisms simply because they come from 
the United States. Such language betrays the 
most deplorable narrow-mindedness, and we 
are sorry to be obliged to raise a tolle against 
this baneful prejudice which has been censured 
so often and so forcibly. “ Opinions,” says 
Dumas fils, “are like nails : the harder you hit 
them, the deeper they sink,” and this would 
seem to be especially true of the mistaken 
idea of loyalty which too many English Cana- 
dians entertain. There are some who think that 
patriotism consists in a blind conservatism 
and an unreasoned aversion to all that comes 
from without, whether good or bad. We remem- 
ber meeting with a Quebec merchant whose 
proud boast was that he had lived for fourteen 
years among the French-Canadians and that he 
had not learned a syllable of their language. 
One would naturally except that the influence 
of a college would tend to dwarf such a lamen- 
table spirit, and we sincerly hope that few of 
the students will endorse the sentiments of 
one who, by a strang misnomer, signs himself 
‘ Loyalty.’ 



OBITUARY. 

mr. john mcintosh, m.a., b.c.l. 

The recording of the death of an alumnus 
is one of the saddest duties a college journal 
can be called upon to perform. We deeply 
regret to have to announce that on the 3rd 
inst, Mr. John McIntosh, M.A., B.C.L., died 
of small-pox after an illness of cnly five days. 
Mr. McIntosh was highly respected and deeply 
beloved by all who knew him. Quiet and unob- 
trusive he gained the esteem and affection of 
the members of the Montreal Bar, of his 
fellow graduates and of a large circle of ac- 
quaintances. He graduated in Law in ’68 and 
with Honours in Arts in ’70 and subsequently 
practised his profession in Stratford, Ont. 

Two years since he came to Montreal and 
entered into partnership with Mr. B. Devlin, M. 



P. He was a prominent member of the Literary 
Society having been one of its founders and his 
absence will be sincerely felt by the members. 

The deceased was only thirty years of age 
and many are the friends who will regret his 
untimely death. 

MR. WALTER McOUAT, B.A. 

We also deeply regret to have to announce 
the death of Mr. Walter McOuat, B. A. The 
deceased gentleman graduated with first rank 
honours in Science in ’65. He died in Nova 
Scotia where he was engaged on the Geologica 
Survey. 



SKATING CLUB. 

Acting upon the suggestion of the last num- 
ber of the Gazette a meeting of students was 
held Monday Dec., 9th for the purpose of 
forming a club under the name of the McGill 
Skating Club, Mr. McGibbon, in the chair. 
Permission has been granted to make a rink, 
and a large number of the students have 
signified their intention to join. A Constitu- 
tion was drafted and a code of Bye-laws 
framed for the governance of the rink. 

The subscription was fixed at two dollars, 
and membership is open only to students. 
The following officers were elected. 

Honorary President. — A. Johnson, LL.D., 

I ’resident — A. McGoun, 4th year. 
Secy-Treasurer. — R. B. Rogers, Middle year Sc. 

Committee. — A. J. Watson, 4th year, R. D. 
McGibbon, 3rd year, E. T. Taylor, 2nd year, 
H. Wood, 1 st year, F. J. Hethrington, Sen. 
year, P. D. Ross, Middle year, J. Scriver, Jun. 
year. Representatives will be elected from 
Law and Medicine. 



SNOW SHOE CLUB. 

A meeting of Arts students was held lately 
for the formation of a Snow Shoe Club. The 
attendance was large. The following were 
appointed a Committe to manage the Club 
A. McGoun 4th year, J. A. Newnham and 
R. D. McGibbon 3rd year. 

The first tramp was to have taken place on 
Friday 26th ult., but, owing to the bad state of 
weather did not come off. We hope to see a 



4 6 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



large attendance of students at these tramps 
— which will begin after the holidays. The 
exercise is one of the most healthy imagi- 
nable, and pleasant evenings are invariably 
spent at the Club house at Cote-des-Neiges. 

Any student who does not possess a pair of 
Snow-Shoes may obtain them at those Establish- 
ments mentioned in our advertising columns. 



UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY. 

This Society met on Saturday evening, Mr. 
Lonergan in the chair. 

The following resolutions were passed by a 
standing vote : — 

“ Moved by Mr. Macmaster, seconded by 
Mr. Hutchinson, that this Society hears with re- 
gret of the premature death of one of its mem- 
bers, the late John McIntosh, M. A., LL.B. and 
desires to record its deep sense of its loss there- 
by and of its appreciation of the scholarship 
and character of the deceased.” 

“ Moved by Mr. Stephens, seconded by Mr. 
McGoun, that a copy of this resolution be sent 
to the relatives of the deceased and to the press.” 

The election of speakers for a public debate, 
resulted as follows : — Messrs. Kellar, Hall 
Stephens and Hutchinson. Reader, Mr. Monk. 

, The question, “Should voting at parliamentary 
elections, be compulsory ? ” was then debated. 
Messrs. Hall, McGoun and Duffy spoke in the 
affirmative and Messrs. Bagg, Lonergan and 
Corrigan in the negative. 

The vote was given in favor of the affirmative. 



PERSONAL. 

Hodge, '74 Law, is practising in Nebraska. 

Hackett, ’74 Law, practising in Stanstead. 

Wilson, B.A., ’75 B.Sc., is at Winnipeg, Man. 

Tunstall, ’75 Medicine, is practising in 
Papineauville. 

Bain, H. U. ’75 Med., B.A., has passed his 
examination before the College of Physicians 
and Surgeons, and is practising in Cornwall, 
Ont. 

Th$ Canada Gazette of Nov. 10th, contains 
the appointment of Captain and Adjutant 
Fred S. Barnjum, of the 1st Prince of Wales 
Rifles, to the rank of Brevet Major. 



We offer our most sincere congratulations to 
Major Barnjum, convinced that in so doing we 
echo the sentiments of all who have had any 
opportunity of noticing the thoroughly efficient 
manner in which he performs his regimental 
duties. 

COLLEGE ITEMS. 

Mr. N. W. Trenholme, has resigned the Presidency 
of the Literary Society and Mr. D. MacMaster has been 
elected in his stead. 

Captain Armstrong, and Private Scriver have been 
elected representatives from the College Company on 
the Committee of the Prince of Wales Rifles, Snow 
Shoe Club. 

The meetings of the U.L. S. have been very sparsely 
attended lately, probably owing to the carelessness of 
the Committee in not securing better rooms. 
Examinations commenced on Monday last. 

Medical Students complain of a scarcity of subjects 
for dissection. 

EXCHANGES. 

Our exchange column is unavoidedly crowded out 
this month. 

COLLEGE SOHSTG-S. 

No. II. 

PARTING SONG. 

Another year has passed away, 

We've gathered here again, 

To bid adieu to those who go, 

Life's honours to attain, 

And as we clasp the hands of these 
Whose college course is o'er, 

We think with sadness of the joys 
They'll share with us no more. 

Chorus. — McGill and seventy-five, (Bis) 

We'll bear in mind through every turn. 

McGill and seventy-five. 

Yet still we all, as years roll on 
Must leave these sheltering walls, 

And while we wind life's unknown way, 

Must follow duty's calls, 

But though the shadows darkly fall 
We’ll tattle every ill, 

And nerve our hearts, with thoughts of yore. 

And mem'ries of McGill. 

Chorus.— McGill and seventy-five, Ac. 

And though we bid our last adieu 
To those who from us part, 

Their absence from us e'er shall be, 

In presence, not in heart, 

And as we tread life’s onward path 
One thought will e'er survive, 

We'll bear in mind, through every turn 
McGill and seventy-five. 

Chorus. — McGill and seventy-five, Ac. 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



47 



DEVLI ?\ 3 Gents Furnishing Goods. 



Hat and Fur 

DEPOT, 

416 Notre Dame Street, 



MONTREAL. 



THE 



|t8iilia j|g8t mi j 



SHERBROOKE, QUEBEC. 




The Subscribers are now prepared to take 
orders for the preparations of this Company, 
consisting of— 

PRESERVED PROVISIONS, la Tina 
ASSORTED SOUPS, in Tins 
POTTED MEATS, in Tins 
SALTED and SMOKED MEATS 
SAUSAGES iu Tins and Skin 
And Sundry other DELICACIES, suitable for 
the Breakfast and Supper Table. 

McG. & B. can confidently recommend these 
Hoods as equal ani, in some cases, superior to 
die imported, and prices are much lower. 

Full particulars in Price Lists, which may be 
had on application. 

McGIBBON & BAIRD, 

SOLE AGENTS, 

ITALIAN WAREHOUSE, 

22i ST JAMES ST 



ADVERTISE IN 

THE McGILL GAZETTE.; 



Students will find it greatly to their advantage to go to 

FRANK B. STREET, 

St. James Street (adjoining Wesleyan Church) 

FOR THEIR 

SHIRTS, COLLARS, CUFFS, 

Underclothing, Scarfs, Gloves, Handkerchiefs, 

UMBRELLAS. CANES, &c 

Only the best goods kept, and one PRICE charged. 

FRANK B. STREET. 

WILLIAM SAMUEL 

3ST HOTRE DAME STREET. 



AN EXTENSIVE STOCK OF 




W i 

NOW ON HAND. 

College Trenchers, Arts and Medical Ilat Ribbon, 
and a varied and extensive Stock of 

SILK, FELT AND OTHER HATS, 

in their Season. 

367 NOTRE BA31E ST. 



IflcdhU College fet Hjaolts 

NOTE BOOKS, 

AND 

Stationery of all kinds, 

IN GREAT VARIETY, SUITABLE FOR 

MEDICAL AND OTHER COLLEGE STUDENTS 

ALSO TIIE COOKS USED IN 

Me Each van's Veterinary Coll eye, 

AT 

HILL’S LIBRARY, 

666 DORCHESTER ST. 



4$ THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



PiifE assortment' 

Standard Library Books, 

LATEST EDITIONS 

ALWAYS IN STOCK. 

BOOKS FURNISHED TO ORDER PROMPTLY. 

Catalogues Mailed Free. 

DRYSDALE & CO., 

BOOKSELLERS & STATIONERS, 

MONTREAL. 


GO TO 

I95| ST. JAMES STREET, 

IF YOU WISH 


FIRST-CLASS 

PHOTOGRAPHS, 

AT A 

REASONABLE PRICE. 

J. G. PARKS, 

PIIO TOGRAPITER. 


McGill College Text Books 


COHEN & LOPEZ , 

IMPORTERS OF 


• 


FINEST BRANDS OF GENUINE 


Dawson Bros. 


Harm flfiprs. 




MEERSCHAUM PIPES, 


Keep always on hand a full supply of all the 


C. B. D. and other varieties of Briar Pipes, 




Text Books in use at the College, 


Russian and Spanish Cigarettes, A>c. 


LSO 


PRESENTATION PIPES 

Silver Mounted &c Engraved to Order* 


STATIONERY IN ALL VARIETY , 




CORNER PLACE DIMES 4 ST, JAMES ST„ 


STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 


ALSO 

231 ST. JAMES STREET , 




OPPOSITE MESSRS. SAVAGE & LYMAN. 


STUDENTS’ POCKET INK BOTTLES 


— *** 3 


AND 




NOTE PAPER AND ENVELOPES 


HSr 


%t am tied with the University Die for the use of Students , 


G. BISHOP & CO., 


FOR SALE AT 


Engravers, 


159 ST. vT^nvtlES ST. 


Lithographers and Printers, 


-■ 


169 ST. JAMES STREET, 


SUBSCRIBE TO 


MONTREAL. 

’ * ‘ ’ ' r - - •- 


THE McGILL GAZETTE 


Printed by J. C. Beckf.t, 658 ft 660 Craig StreeL 



