Vol. VII 



No. 7 



McGILL 




Friday, February 15th, 1884. 




C O N TENTS : 



Song 














PAGE. 

1 


Snowshoeing by Moonlight 


_ 




. 


PAGE. 

8 


Editorials - 














- 1 2 


College World 








t 

00 

1 

»— • 
o 


Contributions - 














- 2 6 


Between the Lectures 




- 


- 


10-11 


Correspondence 














- 6 


New Books - # - 








li 


•Sporting News 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


6-8 













MONTREAL : 

“WITNESS” PRINTING HOUSE. ST. JAMES STREET WEST. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Trenholme, Taylor & Dickson, 

Jidvocatss, jiizovneys, die. 

13 HOSPITAL STREET, 

MOTS TR-EAXj. 

N. W. TRENHOLME, M.A., B.C.L, A D. TAYLOR, B.A. B.C.L. W. E, DICKSON, B.C.L. 



WM. B. S. REDDY, B.C.L. 
Commissioner for the Provinces of Quebec, Ontario & Manitoba, 

118 ST. JAMES STREET. 



Magmaster, Hutghinson & WEIR, 

-McpY 0 C 7 ITE^iH- 
S arris: or s, Solicitors, doc. 

1G2 ST. JAMES STREET, 

MOXTR£!Ali. 

Donald Macmaster, Q.C. M. Hutchinson, B.C.L. R. S. Weir, B.C.L. 

GiREENSHIELDS, MGGORRILL & QUER1N, 



JOHH HEHDERSOH & CC. 







18 



ill 



283 NOTRE DAME ST. 



Extra Quality Goods at Lowest Cash Prices. 

Tb.o Ribbon for sale. 

-«fr>WM. HILL«H- 




vvVrv ♦ 

Jmtr 






SumUkvi, 

CHAMBERS: EXCHANGE BANK BUILDING, 

102 St. Francois Fcuvier St., 



IVEOTNT mJEJ-A.31. . 

J. N. Greenshields. J. C. mcCorkill 



Edmund Guerin. 



CHARLES CUSHING, B.C.L. 
HERBERT S. HUNTER, B.C.L. 

|ofarfe 3 , | ; ommi^lcner^ ^onwptttrB, &c. 

^3{:P^^I^6E-!LICE]S:SESM^UED3lc<. 

No. 110 ST. JAMES STREET. 

Leo (jlS> Cj) ’ 

IMPORTER AND BINDER, 

71 ST. JAMES ST., MONTREAL 

SPECIAL TERMS TO STUDENTS. 



(L^s 4* BOOMS -A.T * z-3 

No. 1323 St. Catherine Street, 
St. Lawrence Hall, St. James St., 

— AND — 

Exchange Hotel, Point St. Charles. 

Shaving Tickets at Keduced Kates, good at any of above places. 

WM. FARQUHARSON, 

f'ltc'Ccl’t Cl I I I' f§a i fo t , 

]\TO. 13 5 ST. FETETl STREET, 

BETWEEN ST. JAMES AND CRAIG STREETS, 

MONTREA _ 



MILITARY UNIFORMS A SPECIALTY. 

gU WIL IN WUMEP 3 

* «, 

A FULL STOCK CONSTANTLY ON HAND 

X>IS»OElTED DIRECT 

— FSOM THE— 

LEADING MANUFACTURERS of the WORLD. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED, 



LYMAN SONS & CO. 

384 ST. J?A V L STREET. 




Vol. VII.] 



McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, FEBRUARY 15th, 1884. 



[No. 7. 






EDITORIAL COMMITTEE: 

Consulting Editor — E. Lafleur, B.A. 



J. R. Murray, B.A., ’86, Law. 
W. H. Turner, ’84, Arts. 

J. W. Moffat, ’84, Ap. Sc. 

F. McLennan, B.A., ’84, Law. 



H. S. McLennan, ’85, Arts. 
W. W. White, B.A. ’86, Med. 
S. Fortier, ’85, Ap. Sc. 
Wyatt G. Johnston, ’84, Med. 



i The University Gazette is published fortnightly during the College 
Session. 

Rejected Communications will not be returned, to which rule no 
exception can be made. The name of the writer must always accompany 
a communication. 



SONG. 

( Translated from Henry Murgo\) 



Rosy mouth, and velvet lips 
Half-unclosed, as if for song— 

Rose, the merry-hearted, trips 
Lightly, as a bird, along. 

Watch her— she is bending down, 

Plucking from the yellow corn 
Blue-eyed blossoms for a crown, 

Fit her beauty to adorn. 

See ! her tresses float afar 
On the air, in golden rings, 

At the hour when twilight’s star 
Herdsmen to the hamlet brings. 

Rose, whose heart is beating quick, 

As she strays the meadows through, 

Petals from a flower doth pick, 

Fain to learn if love be true. 

Blossoms, woven for a crown 
While the Summer sweetly smells, 

Daisy petals, dropping down, 

Love’s mysterious oracles — 

All will quickly fade, and naught, 

Rose, will soon be left for thee, 

But the withered flowerets brought 
From the fields of Memory. 

Geo. Murray. 



©biforialsL 



We feel sure that it will give the friends of this University 
unmixed pleasure to see from our College News that in all 
probability we shall soon be called upon once more to ac- 
knowledge a princely gift from a citizen of Montreal. A 
rumour has come to us that upon the arrival of our respected 
Principal from Europe an offer will be made by a benefactor, 
whose name is at present unknown to us, to erect a building in 
front of Dr. Dawson’s residence to exactly correspond with the 
Redpath Museum on the other side. This new building, we 
believe, is to contain a large Convocation Hall and class-rooms 
for the Faculty of Applied Science. The present Convocation 
Room in Molsons Hall, which has long been felt to be quite 
inadequate for the purpose will then form part of the library, 
and room will thus be found for the books which have already 
commenced to overflow their shelves. We sincerely hope that 
this rumour will not turn out to be false. What a fitting wel- 
come the news of this magnificent gift will be for Dr. Dawson 
on his return to Montreal. It was only on the 27th of last 



March, in the Annual University Lecture that he pointed out 
the wants still unsupplied in the Faculty of Applied Science in 
these words, “ It (the Faculty of Applied Science) is work- 
ing under great disadvantages in the absence of a suitable build- 
ing, and we have even been under the necessity of considering 
the expediency of discontinuing one of its courses of study, 
that of mechanical engineering, which is now provided for by 
extra labour on the part of professors having other duties. To 
place this Faculty on a secure basis, we need a building costing 
at least $50,000, and an additional endowment fund of at least 
$40,000.” It will, we imagine, be no small gratification for 
him to find that the greater part of what he asked for has so 
soon been provided. The gift will be one of the most opportune 
and substantial which has ever been made to the University, 
and we hope that the donor’s name will be permanently associ- 
ated with the building. 

To many who occasionally feel discouraged at the prospects 
of higher education in this province this news will be very 
cheering, and we know that it will be cause for hope and re- 
newed efforts to those immediately engaged in the work. There 
need be no fear for the future of a country where such sacri- 
fices are made for the sake of aiding intellectual advancement. 

A grand feature in the history of McGill University is the 
number of men and women who have nobly come forward at 
different stages to help in building up this national institution. 
Many other universities have received much larger gifts, but 
we think that the number of our benefactors will be found to 
exceed those of most other colleges. This fact seems to show a 
general love for our University, and a widespread desire 
amongst our citizens to promote culture, which is most gratify- 
ing to those who remember how important the intellectual side 
of life is. As we think on this subject we are to look back, 
and looking back we see a goodly array of names occupying the 
years from 1821 to the present time. McGill, Molson, 
Skakel, Redpath, Miss Barbara Scott, Mills, Greensliields, 
Mrs. Stewart, Donald A. Smith, McDonald and Mackay, are 
the names of some of those who have helped to make this Uni- 
versity what it is to-day. Many besides, whose names would be 
too numerous to mention, have subscribed liberally to the gen- 
eral endowment fund. If this list of eminent names goes on 
increasing as we have seen it do in the last few years, McGill 
University will soon occupy a position of usefulness equalled by 
few others on this continent. Our sincere wish is that it may 
so increase. 



In a contribution published in this number what we may 
call the liquor question in universities is dealt with in a very 
earnest and outspoken manner. We cannot help stating, how- 
ever, that we think the writer’s strong feeling has led him to 
state the case in a somewhat exaggerated form, and that his re- 
marks, if published without comment, would be calculated to 
give to our readers very erroneous impressions as to the morals 
of university students in general and our own students in par- 
ticular. We are not inclined to believe that any great number 



2 



of students are given to the vice of drinking “ whiskeys 
straight,” and we imagine that many indulge in boasting about 
how much they can imbibe who seldom or never taste a drop. 
This large talk may have imposed somewhat upon the writer of 
the contribution and led him to think the state of affairs much 
worse than it actually is. In German universities beer drink- 
ing is a general custom, and although the beer is remarkably 
weak and in comparison with whiskey almost harmless, we pre- 
sume that cases of drunkenness do occur occasionally. But 
such scenes as that described in the article on “ Student Life 
in Germany ” we believe occur but rarely. Excess, as far as 
it is to be measured by immediate effects, is the exception not 
the rule. At the same time too, it must be remembered that 
this custom of drinking beer together possesses many advan- 
tages of a social character. Amongst McGill students we are 
glad to say that comparatively little intemperance exists as far 
as we are aware. 

The teetotal question is one which we feel bound to abstain 
from discussing, considering it as we do to belong to the class 
of excluded subjects in which are also included religious and 
political disputes, and the highly interesting but exceedingly 
treacherous theme of women’s rights, but at the same time we 
may express a hope that the remarks in the contribution re- 
ferred to will be read and seriously examined and that they 
may have the effect of lessening still further what little intern 
perance at present exists amongst us. 



The Late Chancellor Day. 

It was with the deepest feeling of regret that we heard of 
the rather sudden death of our respected Chancellor in London, 
England, on the 31th ult. The honorable gentleman had not 
been in the best of health for some time past and had gone to 
Europe on that account, but still his death was quite unex- 
pected and the announcement caused quite a shock not only in 
Montreal but throughout the whole Dominion. Judge Day 
had long been regarded as one of our most eminent citizens and 
was very generally esteemed in Canada and in the Old Country 
where he was born. The late Chancellor first made his mark in 
political life. He entered parliament at the Union in 1841 as 
member for the County of Ottawa, and was called with Sulli- 
van, Draper, Baldwin and others to the Executive Council by 
the Governor-General, Lord Sydenham. He was made Solicitor- 
General for Lower Canada, but he held office through only one 
session, after which he retired from public life to accept a seat 
on the judicial bench. While a member of the administration 
Mr. Day introduced an important measure to make provision 
for the establishment and maintainance of common schools 
throughout the Province. Among other things, it provided an 
annual sum of $200,000 for the establishment of elementary 
schools in Upper and Lower Canada. Under the provisions of 
this Act elementary schools were soon in operation all over the 
Province, and although the measure was not free from objec- 
tionable features, on the whole it proved a national blessing. 
Judge Day continued to discharge the duties of a judge of the 
Superior Court until his superannuation in 1864. In 1857 he 
was appointed with two other judges a Commissioner for the 
codification of the laws of Lower Canada. His work extended 
from 1859 to 1864, and his labours in connection therewith 
will ever be borne in grateful remembrance. But it was as 
Chancellor of this University that Judge Day was best known 
to us. He was appointed to the office immediately after hisre- 



[1884. 



tiring from the bench and he continued to labour for the ad- 
vancement of education and the welfare of the University down 
to the time of his death. He was also President of the Royal 
Institution. During the whole time that he was connected 
with the College Chancellor Day took the deepest interest in its 
affairs, and the loss which the University has sustained in his 
death will not easily be repaired. 



Earth has no scene, however bright and fair, 

Tho’ golden floods and beauteous skies are there, 

Unhallowed by the magic of the past, 

With power its image in the heart to cast. 

The sweetest flowers their crimson leaves may throw, 

Unblest, unnoted, to the radiant glow 
Of eastern suns ; the purest stream may glide, 

Bright foliage twining o’er its silver tide, 

Through vales of perfume, circling isles of light 

Unloved, unhonored, if no spell be cast 

Upon those flowers, that stream, by love or glory ; 

But bring the rich memorials of the past, 

The hallowed legacy of ancient story, 

And all is fair and beautiful, and bright. 

Montreal, 1829 . W. F. Hawlet. 

(Sonfribicfiorrs. 



Whiskey Straight. 

A very interesting article has been lately contributed to the 
McGill Gazette giving an account of Student Life in Germany. 
A noticeable feature of the article is the amount of space 
which the writer occupies in describing the drinking habits of 
our German brothers. In a country which has attained to a 
world-wide reputation in all matters pertaining to education, a 
country which has produced some of the greatest thinkers and 
philosophers of the last two centuries, and which is made the 
“ finishing off ” school for students of every nationality, it seems 
strange and inconsistent to find such prominence given to habits 
that, to say the least, are coarse and unmanly. It is another 
illustration of the proverb, “ extremes meet.” If the writer 
referred to, has given us anything like a true picture of student 
life in Germany, then we are forced to the conclusion that 
higher education there has failed to lift its followers above the 
low plane of animalism and brutality. 

It is an inexplicable anomaly that those endowed with a lib- 
eral education and mental culture should be found indulging in 
a practice so far removed from everything that savours of refine- 
ment and strength of character. Leaving the element of 
religion out of the question, and treating it on social and moral 
grounds only, one is surely justified in expecting that the influ- 
ence of university life would correct and check such low tastes 
and put something better in their place. 

The universities of Canada and the United States present 
the same remarkable phenomenon. It cannot be denied, that 
there are those amongst us who would think themselves greatly 
lacking in a sort of manliness if they could not distinguish 
themselves by taking their “ whiskey straight.” They would 
feel more ashamed of failing in this than of coming short at an 
examination. Most jealously do they guard their reputation for 
wine-bibbing and whiskey guzzling/ Why this is the case we 
cannot tell. The reason may be that it is the shortest road to a 
notoriety which some crave, even at the expense of their well- 
being, physical and moral. For it is easy to distinguish one’s 
self in this line. Success here demands no careful preparation, 
no laborious work, no exhaustive and persistent toil. The 
possession of intellect is no condition for its successful prosecu- 
tion. He who is a dunce in class-room and an idler in the 
study can here find a wide field for the display of his pow r ers, 
a field in which he may become a conspicuous object. This is 
the motive, we presume, which actuates many in making such 
unseemly spectacles of themselves. Before the appetite has 
become master, the barbaric love of notice for notice’s sake, 
urges many to make themselves contemptible and loathsome fools! 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



McGtLL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



3 



1884.] 



We have heard it said publicly that the students of McGill 
are being beaten. In the lofty and inspiring accomplishment 
of taking our “whiskey straight” we have been superseded. 
The proud pre-eminence which for years we have maintained 
against all competitors has been taken from us. We have been 
eclipsed and our glory is departed forever. In the American uni- 
versities a mightier race has arisen of which our neighbors may 
well be proud ; a race of larger appetite, of stronger stomach 
and of coarser fibre, the lustre of whose achievements cpiite 
leaves us in the shade. 

It is a strange competition for men who are supposed to be 
engaged in far higher pursuits. They are supposed to be 
diligently searching out ways and means by which the world 
will be made better and its life purer. It is, therefore, humil- 
iating to find them engaged in eager rivalry as to who can carry 
on most perfectly the process of dehumanization. And if that 
be our object we have come far below the standard. There are 
noble rivals nearer home. For many a sot that reels along the 
street or sleeps in the gutter can show a more glorious record 
and can boast of more brilliant exploits, than the champion 
guzzler of the universities. In attaining this proficiency he has 
lost the name and character not only of a gentleman, but of a 
man. He has hopelessly and recklessly spoiled and ruined be- 
yond all hope of recovery, a life that might have been beauti- 
ful and useful. He has brought an intolerable burden of misery 
on all with whom he has been in any way connected. He has 
become a member of the lowest rank in society, and all evil and 
crime and lawlessness find with him congenial companionship. 
These things and more are the price he has paid for his singular 
expertness. Still he has attained it, and we say “honor to 
whom honor.” If it be matter for self-congratulation among 
men of intellect and learning that they, without a gasp, can 
take their “ whiskey straight,” then let us shake hands with 
this degraded wretch and be generous enough to acknowledge 
his superiority. 

The great and noble-hearted founders of these universities 
would surely, if they- could see the result of their efforts, re- 
pent them of their misplaced generosity. Evidently they 
looked on higher education as a mighty instrument for good, in 
moulding the nation’s life and determining her destiny. They 
proudly dreamed of a time when a broad course of instruction 
would be the heritage of all, and when there would go forth 
yearly, from numerous universities throughout the land, bands 
of men whose influence would tend to diminish the enormous 
evils connected inseparably with an ignorant population. How 
startled they would be could they hear the wails of students 
bemoaning their inferiority, not in intellectual attainment, but 
in the low accomplishments of the bar-room. 

If it be true that we are going behind in this matter, it is a 
cause not of grief, but of joy. The thoughtful and philan- 
thropic world of to-day is massing for the consideration of the 
great problem of our age, namely, its drinking customs and 
the troubles that spring therefrom. They are looking to our 
universities for help. Education is a great power for good or 
evil, and the side with which it is allied must win the victory. 
If the day comes that drunkenness shall be unknown in our 
midst, and the students of every college of every name shall be 
banded on the side of sobriety, then shall the work of reform 
move swiftly to completion, and the great obstacle to social 
order and progress be removed. 



SEA WEEDS. 

Alone with the sea — 

Is there never a voice 

To return my heart’s deep sigh ! 
Alone with the sea — 

And the moon and the stars 

That umine yon lowering sky ! 
Alone with the sea — 

Can no one ell 

What the secret of her unrest ! 
Alone with the sea — 

I could throw myself 

And weep on her heaving breast ! 



Alone with the sea — 

I seem to hear 

In her moan my soul’s own lay, 

Like the cry of a child 
That has lost its home 

And asks but to know the way ! 

The tempest went from the ocean cave, 

And passed along the white sand ; 

A gentle breeze awoke in the south, 

And hastened across the land ; 

And kissed the tear from the restless wave, 

And the sigh from the sounding deep, 

And soothed with the softest lullaby 
The ocean at last to sleep. 

The stars are bright in the sky to-night, 

And the moon looks over the sea ; 

But deeply impressed within my lone breast, 

Is a vision move lovely to me. 

I hear the lave of the rippling wave, 

And a whisper from every tree ; 

But over my soul a music doth roll, 

That is sweeter than all to me. 

On the mountain low lie the clouds like snow, 

And a silence comes over the lea ; 

But a holier calm like some heavenly balm, 

Is falling to-night upon me. 

How beautiful now is the heaven’s pure brow, 

And the glory on land and sea ; 

But the moonlight stream of my fancy’s dream, 

Is dearer than all to me ! 

Gowan Lea. 

Books and their Influence. 

Not least among the advantages of a large and well stored 
library is that which, apart from the contents of the books, is 
found in the discussion of their external characteristics — the 
examination of their mechanical features \ an occupation which 
never fails to induce a patient and loving spirit \ as, through 
volume after volume, we trace the gradual progress of book- 
making from the days of Gutenberg down to our time. The 
multifarious works which have appeared on this subject may be 
taken as conclusive evidence of the charm which this species of 
labour has for some minds. Next to handling and commenting 
on the books themselves, is reading what others have said of 
them, and it has occurred to us that a mingling of heart-warm 
commentary with details of facts would prove neither profitless 
nor uninteresting. 

Schiller wrote in his lofty language .• — 

“New shape and voice— the immaterial thought 

Takes from the invented speaking page sublime, 

The Ark which Mind has for its refuge wrought 

Its floating archive down the flood of time. 

Seneca says of books : — 

“They are friends, no one of whom ever denies himself to him who calls 
upon him ; no one takes leave of his visitor till he has rendered him happier 
and more pleased with himself. The conversation of no one of them is 
dangerous ; neither is the respect to be paid to him attended with expense. 
You may take what you will from them. What happiness, what a glori- 
ous old age awaits him who has placed himself under the protection of such 
friends ! He will have those whom he may consult on the most important 
and the most trifling matters, whose advice he may daily ask concerning 
himself, from whom he may hear the truth without insult, praise without 
adulation, and to whose similitude he may conform himself.” 

And we read in Beaumont and Fletcher : — 

“ That place that does contain 
My books, the best companions, is to me 
A glorious court, where hourly I converse 
With the old sages and philosophers.” 

It appears that the booksellers of antiquity, in common with 
those of the middle ages and of the present time, were accus- 
tomed to affix their names to the works they published ; from 
which it has often happened that in ancient manuscript the 
bookseller’s name has been taken for that of their author. A 
work by Cornelius Nepos was for many years attributed to a 
bookseller of the time of the Emperor Theodosius, H£milius 
Probus, under whose name the book had been subsequently 



4 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



[1884. 



The most ancient mention of a trade in books amongst the 
Greeks is found in Xenophon, who relates that the Thracians 
inhabiting the shores of the Black Sea, set apart a portion of 
the coast for the pillage of wrecked vessels. “ They found,’ 
he says, “upon this shore, great quantity of beds, coffers, books 
and other movables, which the mariners carry in their chests. ’ 
And we have the authority of Diogenes Laertius for believing 
that not only were there booksellers at Athens in the time of 
Zeno, the Stoic, 300 years before Christ, but that even thus 
early a species of literary meetings was held. Such, at least, 
is the inference from a passage in the “ Life of Zeno,” by the 
author just cited. 

“ Zeno, at the age of 30, came to Athens, where he seated himself near 
the shop of a bookseller, who was reading aloud the second book of ‘ Xeno- 
phon’s Commentaries.’ Struck with the recital, he enquired where such 
men could be found. Crates, happening to pass at the moment, the book- 
seller pointed him out to Zeno, saying, ‘ you have only to follow him.’ ” 
From which time he became a disciple of Crates. 

The titles of books, were often printed in large characters, on 
the fronts of the shops where they were exposed for sale. The 
third epigram of the first Book of Martial appears to have been 
intended to be thus exhibited. Its title is : — 

‘‘To the Reader, on the place where the Author’s Books are sold.” 

“ Thou who desirest to have my books everywhere with thee, and wish- 
est to make them the companions of thy distant journeys, buy those which 
the parchment holds between two short covers. Leave the thick volumes 
to libraries. However, that thou may’st know where they are sold, and 
thou may’st not go running over the whole city, I will serve thee as a 
guide. Go, find Secundus, the freedman of the learned Lucensis, behind 
the temple of Peace, and the market of Pallas.” 

The earliest recognized specimen of printing in the Greek 
character is the grammar of Constantine Lascaris, printed at 
Milan in 1476. The volume consists of 72 leaves, of which 
the first two contain a preface in Greek, with a Latin transla- 
tion by Demetrius Cretensis, the editor. 

The first Greek book printed in France was published at 
Paris by the celebrated printer Gilles Gourmond, in 1507, and 
was soon followed by others. It was a quarto, containing the 
Greek Alphabet, the sayings of the Seven Sages, a short 
treatise on envy, the golden verses of Pythagoras, the moral 
poem of Phocylides, the verses of the Erythraean Sybil upon 
the last Judgment, and a dissertation upon the difference in voices. 

Printing in Greek was introduced in England in 1543 ; the 
first specimen was an edition of the “ Homilies of St. Chryso- 
stom.” Up to the year 1599, the printers in Scotland possessed 
neither Greek nor Hebrew types ; the spaces intended to be 
occupied by words in either of those languages were left blank 
in the books, and were filled in afterwards by hand. 

Italic types derive their origin from the cursive characters 
employed in the chancery at Rome, and their name from the 
country in which they were first used. They have sometimes 
been designated “ Venetian letters,” because the first punches 
from which they were struck were made at Venice; and 
“ Aldine ” letters from having been invented by Aldus Minutius. 

In 1567, types in the Saxon character were cast for the first 
time in England by J. Daye, for an edition of “ The Gospels.” 
The introduction of Chinese types into Europe is due to 
Kircher, who superintended the casting of them in 1663. 

The most ancient specimen of Scottish printing is a volume 
published at Edinburgh in 1508. A license had been granted 
by James IV. to Walter Chapman and Andrew Millar, mer- 
chants, of that city, to establish a press in 1507. It was some 
years later before the “noble art” reached Ireland. The first 
printing in Dublin was in 1531 ; and in 1631, 100 years later, 
the first Latin work, by James Usher, was printed in that 
country. 

Two hundred years ago, a Governor of Virginia “ thanked God 
that there was no printing press in his colony ; and he hoped 
that there would be none for 100 years, for learning had brought 
disobedience, and heresy, and sects into the world, and printing 
hath divulged these and other libels.” The sour old royalist 
had not forgotten the mischief made in England by Pym and 
Prynne, and the printers who stirred up the people to sedition. 
And he had high authority for his pet aversion. 

But the history of books is as endless as their tendency. 
Feltham says that “idle books are the licensed follies of the 



age.” The comparison was very apt, in Plutarch, “ that we 
ought to regard books as we would sweetmeats , not wholly to 
aim at the pleasantest, but chiefly to respect the wholesomeness ; 
not forbidding either, but approving the latter most. 

In the words of Zimmerman : — 

“ Reading brings us, in our most leisure hours, to the conversation of men 
of the most enlightened genius, and presents us with all their discoveries. 
We enjoy, in the same moment, the company of the learned and the 
ignorant, of the wise man and the blockhead, and we are taught how to 
avoid the foibles of the human mind, without having any share in their 
bad effects.” 

We may range at will over the whole domain, explore its 
intricacies, or pass lightly from one sunny spot to another, 
saying with Pope, — 

“ Sworn to no master, of no sect am I ; 

As drives the storm, at any door I knock, 

And house with Montaigne now, and now with Locke 

A book belongs in a peculiar manner to the age and nation 
that produce it. It is an emanation of the thought of the time, 
and if it survive to an aftertime, it remains as a landmark of 
the progress of the imagination or the intellect. Some books 
do even more than this ; they press forward to the future age, 
and make appeals to its maturer genius ; but in so doing they 
still belong to their own — they still wear the garb which stamps 
them as appertaining to a particular epoch. Of that epoch, it 
is true, they are, intellectually, the flower and chief ; they are 
the expression of its finer spirit, and serve as a link between 
the two generations, of the past and the future ; but of that 
future — so much changed in habits and feelings, and know- 
ledge — they can never, even when acting as guides and teachers, 
form an essential part ; there is a bond of sympathy wanting. 

A glance at our great books will illustrate this — books which 
are constantly reprinted, without which no library can be 
tolerated — which are still, generation after generation, the 
objects of the national worship, and are popularly supposed to 
afford a universal and unfailing standard of excellence in the 
various departments of literature. These books, though pored 
over as a task and a study by the few, are rarely opened and 
seldom read by the many, they are known the least by those 
who reverence them most. They are in short, idols, and their 
worship is not a faith, but a superstition. This kind of belief 
is not shaken even by experience. When a devourer of the 
novels of Sir Walter Scott, for instance, takes up Tom Jones , 
he, after a vain attempt to read, may lay it down with a feeling 
of surprise and dissatisfaction ; but Tom Jones remains still to 
his convictions “an epic in prose,” the fiction par excellence of 
the language. As for Clarissa Harloice and Sir Charles 
Grandison , we have not heard of any common reader in our 
generation who has had the hardihood even to open the 
volumes ; but Richardson as well as Fielding retains his origi- 
nal niche among the gods of romance ; and we find Scott himself 
one of the high priests of this worship. One of our literary 
idols is Shakspere — perhaps the greatest of them all ; but 
although the most universal of poets, his works in the mass 
belong to the age of Elizabeth, not to ours. It has been said, 
if Shakspere were now living he would manifest the same 
dramatic power, but under different forms ; and his taste, his 
knowledge, and his beliefs would all be different. This, how- 
ever, is not the opinion of the book-worshippers ; it is not the 
poetry alone of Shakspere, but the work bodily, which is pre- 
eminent with them ; not that which is universal in his genius, 
but that which likewise is restricted by the fetters of time and 
country. It would be easy to run over, in this way, the list of 
our great authors, and to show that book-worship as contra- 
distinguished from a wise and discriminating respect, is nothing 
more than a vulgar superstition. 

When we talk of the authors of our generation pressing for- 
ward to claim the sympathy of the maturer genius of the next, 
we mean precisely what we say. We are well aware that some 
of the great writers we have mentioned have no equals in the 
present world; yet the present world is more mature in point of 
taste then their own. That is the reason why they are great 
authors now. Some books last for a season, some for a genera- 
tion, some for an age, or two, or more ; always dropping off 
when the time they reach outstrips them. One of these lost 



1884.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



5 



treasures is sometimes reprinted ; but if this is done in the 
hope of a renewed popularity, the speculation is sure to fail. 
Curious and studious men, it is true, are gratified by its repro- 
duction ; but the general reader would prefer a book of his own 
generation, using the former as materials, and separating its im- 
mortal part from its perishing body. 

And the general reader, be it remembered, is virtually the 
age. It is for him, the studious think, the tuneful sing ; be- 
yond him there is no appeal but to the future. He is supersti- 
tious, as we have seen, but his gods are few and traditional. 
But how voracious is this general reader in regard to the 
effusions of his own day ! What will become of the myriads of 
books which have passed through our own unworthy hands ? 
How many of them will survive to the next generation ? How 
many will continue to float still further down the stream of 
Time? How many will attain the honour of the apotheosis? 
And will they co-exist in this exalted state with the old ob- 
jects of worship ? This last is the most important question ; 
for each generation will, in all probability, furnish its quota to 
the great books of the language, and if so, a reform in the 
superstition we have been speaking of is no longer a matter of 
mere expedience, but of necessity. • 

We are aware that all this will be pronounced rank heresy 
by those who make a great outcry when a favourite author is 
lightly spoken of. Such critics usually take credit to them- 
selves for a peculiarly large and liberal spirit ; but there seems 
to us, on the contrary, to be something mean and restricted in 
views that regard the man as an individual, not as a portion of 
the genius which belongs to the world. The true question 
simply is : — 

Are great authors to be allowed to become practically obsolete 
— and many of them have become so already — while we stand 
upon the delicacies and ceremonies of book-worship ? 

One other kind of book we desire to say a word about en pas - 
sant. We mean the ephemeral book of the hour. — This is a book- 
making age, and every man rushes to the press with his small 
morsel of imbecility, his little piece of favourite nonsense, and 
is not easy until he sees his impertinence stitched in two covers. 
Some one possesses the vivacity of a harlequin — he is fuddled 
with animal spirits, giddy with constitutional joy ; in such a 
state he must write a book or burst ; a discharge of ink is abso- 
lutely necessary to avoid fatal and plethoric congestion. 

A musty and limited pedant yellows himself a little among 
rolls and records, plunders a few libraries, and lo ! we have an 
entirely new work by the learned Mr. Dunce, and that after an 
incubation of only a month. He is, perhaps, a braggadocio of 
minuteness, a swaggering chronologer, a weather prophet, a 
man bristling with small facts, prurient with dates, wantoning 
in obsolete evidence. No matter, there are plenty of news- 
papers who are constantly lavishing their praises upon small 
men and bad books. A mendacious press will puff the book 
through a brief season, and then — it will go to feed the devour- 
ing maw of the past. 

But these are not authors ; these are as Douglas Jerrold 
christened them, “paper-stainers.” It must have been such a 
personage, who, meeting Jerrold, accosted him with, “I am told 
you said my last book was the worst I had written,” and met with 
the curt rejoinder, “No ! I said it was the worst book ever written !” 

Perhaps the best books to read for information (they should 
be so !) are such as were written in the times and among the 
events which they relate. AVe thus get a picture from sight, 
whilst in compilation, we have caricatures cut from hear-say. 
But few productions, however, that in their nature belong to 
passing events and interests are worthy to live beyond them, 
yet ever since the press began its work in Europe, some few 
have escaped that general doom, because of the salt which never 
loses its savour. The Drapier Letters have long survived 
William Wood and his patent for copper coinage against which 
Dean Swift wrote them. Much older works might be instanced ; 
but, strange to say, these outlivers of their times are all “ against 
something” and amongst their numerous congeners yet written, 
or read by our own generation, those that have appeared against 
Louis Napoleon will be found the most enduring, because the 
cleverest books of the hour. 



The habit of studying old books is, we fear, dying out. There 
is too much that is fresh and fair, and foolish to occupy our 
minds, and we are losing our grip of the substantial past, to 
grasp at the foolish of the fashionable present. 

(To he Continued .) 



A Few Words about ax Interesting, but now Extinct Race. 

At the present period of the world’s history we are so well 
acquainted with the human form, and all its varieties, that we 
can find little or nothing to excite our wonder, either in the 
course of our travels, or in the range of our reading. Nature 
seems to have grown as solemn, tame, and regular as a priest in 
a procession, and the lovers of prodigies have to regret that she 
sports no longer as in the days of yore. In colour, shape, size, 
or number of parts, we seldom find any animal that deserves the 
name of a lusns ; and were it not that Barnum and other enter- 
prising showmen occasionally treat us to the sight of dwarfs, 
giants, mermaids and woolly horses, we might suppose that 
Nature is now too old and sober to indulge in her youthful 
frolics. What additional zest was given to life, and what fresh 
interest to knowledge, by the narratives and caljinets of former 
ages ! Let any one dip into the pages of Pliny’s Natural 
History , that great magazine of ancient gossip and credulity, 
and he will there see how Nature trifled, and Naturalists were 
amused in primitive times. He will there see how she tried 
her freaks with the human form, not only in individual in- 
stances, but also on the scale of whole nations. Previous to 
the extraordinary information with which Pliny favours us in 
the 2nd chapter of his 7th Book, he solicits our belief in the 
following words : “In most points I shall not be content to 

pledge my own credit only, but shall confirm it in preference 
by referring to my authorities, which shall be given on all sub- 
jects of a nature to inspire doubt. My readers must make no 
objection to following the Greeks, who have proved themselves 
the most careful observers, and are, moreover, of the longest 
standing.” 

With these preliminary remarks he at once dives into his 
subject, and introduces us to the Arimaspi, “ a nation remarka- 
ble for having but one eye, and that placed in the middle of the 
forehead.” This race appears to have had an eye to business, 
for, as Pliny continues, “they carry on a perpetual warfare 
with the Griffins, or winged monsters, for the gold which they 
dig out of the mines, and which these wild beasts keep "watch 
over with singular cupidity, while the Arimaspi are equally de- 
sirous of obtaining it.” 

A second nation, who dwell beyond the Scythian Anthropo- 
phagi, in a certain great valley of the Imaus, “are a savage 
race whose feet are turned backwards, relatively to their legs ; 
but who possess wonderful velocity, and wander about indis- 
criminately with the wild beasts.” Their neighbours are a 
tribe of men who have the heads of dogs, and clothe them- 
selves with the skins of fierce animals. Instead of speaking 
they bark ; and, being furnished with long claws, they live by 
hunting and catching birds. Ctesias, on whose authority Pliny 
here relies, states that they are more than 120,000 in number ; 
and at the same time speaks of another race of men known as 
Monocoli, who have only one leg, but are able to leap with sur- 
prising agility. The same people are also called Sciapodoe, 
because they lie on their backs during periods of extreme heat, 
and protect themselves from the sun by the shade of their one 
foot. At p. 157 of “The Yoiage and Travaile of Sir John 
Maundevile, ‘Kt.,” printed from a quarto on vellum, written 
about the year 1400, and now in the Cottonian Library, the 
worthy Knight gives the following account of this strange race. 
“In Ethiope ben many dy verse folk ; and Etliiope is clept 
Cusis. In that Contree ben folk that han but o foot ; and tliei 
gon so fast, that it is marvaylle ; and the foot is so large that it 
schadewethe alle the Body azen the Sonne, whanne thei wole 
lye and reste hem.” Pliny informs us they live not far from 
the Troglodytoe, or dwellers in caves, to the west of whom 
there is a tribe who are without necks, and have eyes in their 
shoulders. Omitting all mention of other marvellous races I 
hasten on to the Astomi, the interesting, but extinct tribe, 'to 



6 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1884. 



wliom I am desirous of paying my earnest tribute of admiration. 
Before quoting Pliny, it may be well to transcribe Sir John’s 
account of the Astomi, to be found at p. 297 of his “Voiage 
and Travaile.” “The folk of the Yle that is clept Pytan ne 
tyle not, ne laboure not the Erthe ; for tliei eten no manere 
tiling ; and thei ben of gode colour, and of faire schap, aftre hire 
gretnesse ; but the smale ben as Dwerghes, but not so litylle 
as ben the Pigmeyes. Tlieise men lyven be the smelle of 
wylde Apples ; and whan thei gon ony fer weye, thei beren the 
Apples with hem. For zif thei hadde lost the savour of the 
Apples, thei scholde dyen anon. Thei ne ben not fully reson- 
able, but their ben symple, and bestyalle.” Pliny’s account of 
them is more circumstantial. “At the very extremity of India,” 
he writes, “ on the Eastern side, near the source of the river 
Ganges, there is the nation of the Astomi, a people who have 
no mouths. Their bodies are rough and hairy, and they cover 
themselves with a down plucked from the leaves of trees. 
These people subsist only by breathing, and by the odours 
which t hey inhale through their nostrils. They support them 
selves upon neither meat, nor drink ; when they go upon a long 
journey, they carry with them only some odoriferous roots, 
flowers and wild apples, that they may not be without something 
to smell at. But an odour, which is a little more powerful than 
usual, easily destroys them.” 

What an amiable, gentle and interesting race, and how much 
it is to regretted that it is now extinct ! These “ most delicate 
monsters were indeed deprived of one feature of the human 
countenance which possesses an endless charm for painters, 
poets and lovers, but along with it disappeared a thousand ills 
to which our flesh is heir. With the Astomi there was no 
toiling for necessary food — no eating of bread in the sweat of 
their face. YY ith them, no scarcity was ever created by wicked 
combinations among speculators in wheat. With them, society 
was not plundered by farmers, millers, butchers, bakers, cooks 
and confectioners. With them, toothaches were never felt, and 
dental surgery was unknown. In their happy country there 
was no wrangling, no mob oratory, no tumultuous mass-meeting. 
AY ith them there was no noisy forum ; no factious senate ; no 
jabbering city council ; no Teachers’ Convention. In their 
quiet societies no female orator “ talked you dead.” No politi- 
cal pretender insisted on entrusting you with state secrets. No 
scandalmonger tried to make you an accomplice in killing char- 
acter. The whole business of society was tranascted as quietly 
as if by telegraph, and parties of pleasure were silent as the 
historical four and twenty blackbirds in the pie — before it was 
opened. Nevertheless, the Astomi were not without the sen- 
sual enjoyments of life, or an abundant supply of luxuries 
suited to their refined appetite. Their food and drink were the 
delicious odours of roots and fruits, leaves and flowers. They 
inhaled their nourishment through the organ of smell, and 
pampered their palate through their olfactory nerves. They 
could breakfast plainly on a plate of rosebuds, and dine luxuri- 
ously on the fragrance of a nosegay. The perfumes of the 
garden, and the scents of the orchard, or the forest, were their 
only meals. Their store-rooms and pantries were filled with 
sweet-smelling fruits, dried herbs, aromatic leaves, and bottled 
essences. Like Titania’s favourite they were fed in Summer 

“ With apricots and dewberries, 

With purple grapes, green figs, and mulberries.” 

On a journey or a march, their magazine of provisions con- 
sisted of baskets of flowers, or collections of fragrant herbs. 
Their banquets took place in their gardens, and while they ap- 
peared to be sitting idly in the midst of a parterre, or carelessly 
ranged around a flower-plot, they were greedily inhaling their 
invisible dinner. However varied their bill of fare, it had refe- 
rence only to the nose. Instead of our familiar invitation, 
“Come and eat your beef or your mutton with me to-day,” they 
would say in their language (tongue, of course, it could not be 
called), “Come and smell your violets or pine apple with me 
this evening.” The epicures among the Astomi were known by 
the fineness of their scents, and the piquancy of their essences ; 
and their gluttons by the length of their meals and the quantity 
of their inhalations. But notwithstanding the delicate nature of 
their viands, it seems that the sensualists among them were 



not exempted from the distempers that attack their brethren 
who have mouths and grosser appetites. For, according to our 
author, they were sometimes carried off by too strong an etherial 
diet, and expired in the ecstasies of an aromatic apoplexy. 



©otrresponderrce. 



To the Editors of the McGill University Gazette. 

Sirs, — In your issue of February 1st there appears some column or so of 
some miserable attempt at wit, purporting to have been sent you by W. 
A. De W. 

As I am, as far as I can find out, the only man with such initials in the 
medical building, I have been accused several times of being the author of 
the effusion and it has already caused some coolness on the part of some 
who have hitherto been among my friends at the college. In justice to 
myself, therefore, I would ask you to publish my denial of being the 
author of such a low piece of work, or of having anything to do with it. 

I remain, Sirs, 

Very truly yours, 

W. A. De W. Smith. 

[Although the contribution to which Mr. Smith refers was 
signed with the initials YV. A. De W. it is needless for us to 
say that we never for a moment suspected that that gentleman 
was capable of writing such a miserable attempt at wit. YYe 
are very sorry that the resurrection which our Poetical Editor 
caused amongst the contents of our YY r aste Paper Basket should 
have led to any coolness between Mr. Smith and his friends, 
and we sincerely hope that upon the appearance of this denial 
he will immediately be received back into the bosoms of his 
fickle admirers. YVhoever may have written the poem in ques- 
tion, it was certainly unwarrantable for him to make use of the 
initials YY. A. De YY r . and we think that the matter ought 
at once to be investigated in order that the culprit may be 
brought to light. — Eds.] 



-Sporiirrcj 'J8X etps. 



Hockey. 



During Carnival week, great numbers of people visited the 
open air rink on the College grounds, and evinced great interest 
in the hockey tournament. Although the Victorias won 
the championship, the result need by no means discourage our 
men, as will be seen from the following resume of the matches 
played during the week. 



Y r ictorias, (champions), - - won 4, lost 1. 

Ottawa, - - - . . “ 4 2 

McGill, ..... « 3, “ 2. 

Crystals, - - - - - “ 1 “ 3. 

YYanderers, - - - . “ 0, “ 4. 

Had time permitted, it would have been better to have had 
the matches played off in pairs in the usual way, as the Ottawa 
and "V ictoiia teams are now in reality ecpial, having won one 
match each. Most of the matches with the Crystals and Wan- 
derers went by default. A\ e may mention that several mem- 
bers of the Ottawa team were old McGill men, whom we were 
very glad to see amongst us once more. 

The following are the matches in which the McGill team 
took part : — 



McGill vs. Victorias. 



The admirers of the popular and exhilarating game of hockey 
collected in goodly numbers to witness the opening of the "rand 
hockey tournament on the rink at the McGill College Grounds 
on Monday afternoon. There were also present many who were 
strangers to the sport, but who evinced the greatest interest in 
the proceedings. The ladies were well represented notwith- 
standing the fact that the weather was bitterly cold. The Vic- 
toria and McGill Clubs opened the tournament. Both teams 
were in fine trim and the ice was in splendid condition. The 
following were the teams : — 



Victoria. 

G. Dunn Goal. 

Shearer Point 



McGill. 

. . . Hutchinson 
J. Elder, Capt. 



1884.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



7 



J. Arnton, Capt Cover Point, Budden 

Stevenson Centre Ogilvie 

F. Ash Forward Craven 

E. Shepherd “ Brown 

J. Muir * “ Fairbanks 

J. W. Richards Umpire Jas. McCarthy 

Referee N. T. Rielle. 

The ball was faced at 4.30 p. m., and after a short scrimmage 
travelled towards McGill's flags, where Elder got it and rapidily 
sent it to the other end of the rink, but it was rapidly returned 
by Shearer. Some good play now took place in the centre of 
the rink, and the ball passed rapidly from side to side. It was 
gradually got up towards McGill's flags, but Elder as point was 
simply impregnable, until a rally took place close to the College 
goal-men's goal, when Stevenson put the ball through securing 
the first game for the Victorias — time, fifteen minutes. The 
ball was again faced and some sharp play ensued, but the game 
was principally a defence one for the McGill men during the 
remainder of the first half hour. 

After a rest of ten minutes goals were changed and play was 
resumed. The College men seemed now to realize that they 
had their work cut out for them, and settling down to it with a 
determination to win, they forced their opponents hard, and 
many a time the Victoria's flags were in danger. After twenty- 
five minutes of magnificent play, the ball was put through the 
Victoria’s goal, but the umpire held that the ball had gone be- 
hind the flags and was brought out and put through without a 
bully, and accordingly ruled “no game." The McGill men pro- 
tested against this, and appealed to the referee, but he also 
upheld the ruling of the umpire for the Victorias, whereupon 
the College men refused to play any longer and left the ice. 
Elder and Ogilvie were decidedly the strongest men on the 
McGill team, while Ash, Muir andjShearer did some good work 
for the Victorias. 

Ottawa vs. McGill. 

On Thursday morning, 7th February, there was a very large 
attendance to witness the contest between teams from the Ot- 
tawa and McGill College clubs. The McGill team were the 
same as played the Victorias, with the exception of H. D. 
Johnson, who replaced Fairbanks. The Ottawa team were : — 



Jenkins Captain and Forward. 

Kirby do 

Gallagher do 

Young do 

Green Centre. 

Kerr Point. 

Law Goal. 



It was thought that the Governor-General would be present, 
and the committee had made comfortable arrangements for him 
and suite, having built a neat stand on the west side of the 
rink. Through some misunderstanding, His Excellency did 
not arrive, much to the chagrin of the players and crowd. The 
weather was beautiful, and the ice in splendid condition. The 
play for the first half hour was excellent throughout, the teams 
being very evenly matched, and playing hockey in a scientific 
manner. Every man on each side did his full duty, and when 
time was called neither side had any advantage. On the 
second half McGill played for the first fifteen minutes well to- 
gether, dodging in capital style, This rather flustered the Ot- 
tawas, who bunched up too much, and time and again 
Green saved the goals of his side. McGill, however, closed 
up, and Ogilvie getting a good shot, sent the rubber through 
the Ottawas' flags, winning the first goal in ten minutes, 
amidst great cheering. Play was at once resumed, and the Ot- 
tawas in the latter part of the game made it very interesting, 
putting McGill on the defensive, and two or three times almost 
making a goal. The McGill play, however, was too much for 
them and the referee called time before another goal was won. 
McGill therefore won by one goal. 

Ottawa vs. McGill. 

On Saturday morning the 9th., the McGills and Ottawas 
met for the second time. The men composing the McGill team 
were the same as those that played on Thursday, and the Ot- 
tawas had the same men as before. It was seen from the very 



first that the Ottawas were playing a better game than they 
did on Thursday ; indeed, so strongly did they play that when 
half time was called they had two goals to their credit both of 
which were taken by Jenkins, while the McGills had none. 
After a short rest the game recommenced, and although things 
looked very blue for our men they went to work with the de- 
termination to change the aspect of affairs. For a while they 
kept the ball near the Ottawa's goals, but Kerr got away with it 
and made a splendid run, bringing the ball right up to the Mc- 
Gill goals. His shot was stopped by Hutchinson, but Kirby 
who had followed up the ball, secured it and before Hutchinson 
had recovered himself had sent it flying between the poles, thus 
scoring the third game for the Ottawas. The positions of the 
McGill men were then changed, Johnson being put in goal and 
Craven at point, Elder and Hutchinson playing forward. This 
change had a beneficial effect, and after that our men had 
decidedly the best of the game, keeping the ball in dangerous 
proximity to the Ottawa's goals, but they could not manage to 
secure a goal. When time was called the Ottawas were de- 
clared the winners by three games to none. They played a 
magnificent game throughout, playing well together, and fol- 
lowing the ball up far better than the McGill team. The best 
forward playing was done by Kirby and Jenkins, who time and 
again rushed the ball through the McGill forwards and placed 
them on the defensive. Their defence was also very strong, 
but it was not called very much into play until near the end of 
the game. On the McGill side Brown and Budden did some 
dashing play as forwards ; Elder was hardly up to his usual 
mark, but still he saved his side several times ; in goals Hut- 
chinson was a regular stone wall, stopping shots again and 
again. The play all round was rather rougher than on Thurs- 
day, and fouls were of frequent occurrence, but the best feel- 
ing prevailed between the men, and they cheered each other 
heartily at the finish. 

We may mention in connection with the match with the 
Victorias that the umpires were on wrong sides when the dis- 
pute referred to arose. 

During the present season McGill has in all won six matches 
and lost only two. 

Intercollegiate Contests. 

It has been questioned whether the American colleges do not 
make a mistake in permitting intercollegiate games of football ; 
end the series of disasters and accidents which have attended 
such matches is so long as to suggest that in this case certainly 
“ le jeu n'en vaut pas la clianclelle ." In England the results of 
the game are as deplorable as in America. An English paper 
says : “At the Oxford University football matches, . . . 

several serious accidents occurred. Mr. Gore received serious 
injuries, but is progressing favorably. Fowler of Magdalen 
sustained a fracture of one of his legs. At Cambridge, in the 
Rugby match between University and Kensington, Colbourn 
Hope broke his leg, and another “ Cantab" was very much 
hurt. One of the Kensington men had his nose smashed, and 
another severely sprained his ankle. Most of the players 
received slight injuries, and minor casualties occurred in other 
games." Harvard University, which has taken an honorable 
lead in the wise development of athletic sports as an element of 
manly discipline, is the first to raise this question ; but we 
understand that it has come up for consideration in other 
institutions, so that there is reason to hope that this brutal sport 
may give place to others more in consonance with our civiliza- 
tion. In the University of Pennsylvania, an association of 
graduates and alumni has been formed to establish a gymnasium 
on the system so ably organized by Dr. Sargent of Harvard ; and 
the trustees have offered the use of the ground south of Spruce 
Street and west of Thirty-Sixth for the purpose. In Dr. 
Sargent’s system, a careful examination and record are made of 
the physical condition of the student, and he is set to do those 
things for which he probably will have the least inclination, but 
which will do him the most good. The result of this discipline 
is ascertained by periodical examinations, and the directions are 
modified as the record seems to require. The object kept 
steadily in view is the health of the student though his harmoni- 
ous physical development . — The American , Philadelphia. 



8 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1884. 



Football. 

The annual meeting of our Football Club was held on the 
evening of the 11th. Though the attendance was not very large, 
yet the enthusiasm of those present augurs well for a good sea- 
son next year. Moreover, the newly-chosen officers of the club 
are all energetic men who will do their best to make McGill 
foootball a success. 

After preliminary business, the Treasurer, J. S. Hislop, read 
his report. This showed 50 paid-up subscribers, and a balance 
on hand of 815. The meeting then proceeded to election of 
officers for next year. A good choice was made when G. C. 
Wright was unanimously elected president of the Club, for, as 
was said in the nomination, he is one who has always been 
active in football matters, having played as a member of the 
team. Only one nomination was made for captain of the team, 
and that was J. Elder, of Medicine. The vote was hearty and 
unanimous ; the enthusiasm with which Elder was put into 
office clearly showed the confidence that the club has in his 
ability for this difficult position. As new captain he outlined 
his intentions for next season. He said that the only point — 
and it was very evident that they were weak in this — as to 
which the team of this year was weak was in team-play. As 
team practice could not be obtained in the afternoon, he would 
insist on the team turning out in the mornings. This had been 
done by the Montrealers during the last season, and with such 
success that they intended to continue morning practice three 
times a week. This would give an opportunity to the college 
team which we must take advantage of. To lighten the arduous 
work of the captain, Craven, second year Science, was elected 
assistant captain ; Treasurer, R. Robertson ; Secretary, S. Ogil- 
vie. The General Committee, which also consists of the offi- 
cers of the Club, ex-officio, is : — A. W. Smith, E. DeF. Holden, 
Kerry, Budden, H. Johnson. Two sections of the constitution 
were then amended. 

Sect. 3 now reads : — “ Members of the club shall consist 
of all students taking lectures in McGill University who have 
paid their annual subscription.” 

This change was made to include any who might be from one 
reason or another taking a partial course, and who, though not 
full undergraduates, were yet bona fide students of the Univer- 
sity. 

Sect. 11, which refers to the time of meeting, now reads : — 
“ The annual meeting shall be held as soon after the close of 
the season as the committee shall think best.” 

The meeting then adjourned. This brings to a close a year 
which has seen a decided increase of interest in the noblest of 
games, the game of football. 



SNOWSHOEING BY MOONLIGHT. 

If thou would’st view a lovely sight, 

Go snowshoe by the “ pale moonlight 
The trees hang heavy with snowy limbs, 

The wind their crusted outline trims. 

The cold air echoes every sound, 

On every dale, on every mound, 

The beaming light of vivid Queen 
Throws lustre of a gorgeous sheen. 

We tramp along with jest and song, 

No lurking fears to us belong, 

The wavy snow our feet beneath 
Seems like a soft resistless heath. 

O wondrous night ! the gleaming waste, 

Sends back our shouts, as on we haste 
O'er field, thro’ forest till the midnight deep 
Warns us to seek the well-earned sleep. 

Then homeward glide we thro’ the snow, 

On ruddy cheek, a lively glow, 

With memories keen of fairest skies 
To which these dazzling beauties rise. 

“ Cnock Elachan .” 



(Solletje IZSSovlt). 



McGILL. 

Faculty of Medicine. 

As the calls upon the time of the Primary classes were some- 
what numerous, it is stated that Cook was enregistered and ably 
represented his absent classmates in the pursuit of knowledge. 

Things were rather dull last week at the College. As nearly 
every Med. was frequently obliged, much against his will, of 
course, to go and see a maw ; the lecture rooms were seldom un- 
comfortably crowded. 

On Thursday evening the 7th., about three hundred students 
from the smaller colleges escorted the Governor-General from 
the Windsor to the Lansdowne Toboggan Slide, carrying 
torches. By agreement, no McGill men took part. 

The students' reception, given by the Y. M. C. A. was a 
grand success. It was very well attended, and after spending a 
most enjoyable evening and partaking freely of good things both 
intellectual and edible the students scattered to their homes or 
elsewhere — principally elsewhere. 

And now the average Med., having sworn off till exams, are 
over and said good-bye to his girl for the nonce ; — proceeds to 
borrow some other man's notes and study up his examiner’s hob- 
bies, that he may appear to “ speak as one having authority ” 
when the exam, comes round. Surely it’s an ill wind that 
blows nobody good. 

As suggestions about future carnivals appear to be all the 
rage at present, we would suggest that next year the Faculty 
should arrange that the lectures should be delivered in the bil- 
liard room of the Windsor. Practical work could be done at 
the bar and the clinics might be given in the ice palace. If 
this course should be adopted we may reasonably expect that 
the attention to work during carnival week will be greater than 
at any other part of the session. 

It is rumored that a gentleman of this city is about to add 
his name to those of McGill's benefactors by erecting a building 
similar to the Redpath Museum for the use of the Faculty of 
Applied Science. It is also said, that the building will contain 
a convocation hall, but that no steps will be taken in the 
furtherance of this design until the return of Dr. Dawson. We 
cannot vouch for the truth of this report, but fervently hope 
that it is not altogether unfounded. 

On Wednesday evening, the 6th inst., there was a general 
turn out of the students to view the bombardment of the ice 
palace. The procession proceeded from the Arts building and 
fought its way through the dense crowd by St. Catherine Street 
to the scene of action, The college ensign, a gown on a pole, 
led the way, and college choruses were sung to the accompani- 
ment of unearthly sounds, produced by horns and other melo- 
dious instruments. After the sham fight the streets were 
paraded, and having marched back to Dominion Square the 
army broke up after having formed a large circle and treated 
the concourse to “ God Save the Queen ” and “ Auld Lang Syne.” 

His Excellency the Marquis of Lansdowne with the Mar- 
chioness and suite visited the college on Tuesday, 5tli inst., 
and was presented with an address by the University. His 
lordship’s reply, which was printed in the daily papers was ex- 
pressed in very appropriate terms. A large number of members 
of Convocation were present, and the undergraduates, princi- 
pally of the Faculties of Arts and Applied Science occupied the 
centre of the hall. Dnring the proceedings several songs were 
sung by the students, including the National Anthem, “ For 
he’s a jolly good fellow,” “ Litoria,” and others. The reception 
accorded to the Marchioness was especially enthusiastic. xYfter 
inspecting the Library the vice-regal party drove away amidst 
deafening cheers. We hope that our noble Visitor will give us 
the pleasure of seeing him at McGill on many future occasions. 
Undergraduates' Literary Society. 

At the regular meeting on the 1st inst., Mr. Mackay read a 
clever, but somewhat one-sided paper upon the “Life and 
V ritings of Anthony Trollope.” Mr. Mackay is too warm an 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



9 



1884.] 



admirer of that novelist to be an impartial critic, and conse- 
quently his essay was rather eulogistic than judicious. The 
subject for debate was : “ Has Trial by Jury Proved a Failure V 
The affirmative opinion was upheld by Messrs. Wright, F. 
Pedley and Turner, who were opposed by Messrs. Cakler* 
Livingston and J. P. Gerrie. The discussion was protracted to 
a length almost tedious, and it was a relief to both audience and 
speakers when the question was finally put to the vote. In 
fact, when any debate excites no more than usual interest, six 
speakers are too many, especially if, as in this case, all are 
fairly fluent and possessed of the talkative man’s tendency to 
prolixity. 

University Literary Society. 



Mr. Alfred Baker, Lecturer in Mathematics, in Toronto 
University has resigned the command of the College Company 
in the Queen’s Own Rifles. Press of business is the reason he 
assigns. 

The Christmas number of the Hamilton (Ky.) College 
Monthly was very tastily gotten up, and contained several appro- 
priate illustrations. Of the literary matter the poetry was 
especially good. 

J. E. McClure of Cambridge has written a “ History of 
American College Journalism.” There are 190 college papers 
in the United States, the oldest of which is the Brunonian , 
founded in 1829. 



At the meeting on the 1st inst., after the minutes had been 
read and confirmed, the report of the public debaters was read. 
They recommended that the debate take place in the Windsor 
on the evening of the 22nd., and that the subject be “ Should 
Phonetic spelling be adopted in the English language ?” Af- 
firmative, Messrs. G. W. Arthy and E. Hague \ Negative, 
Messrs. R. J. Elliot and J. Mackie. On the motion of Mr. 
Oughtred seconded by Mr. A. McGoun, the report was adopted. 
We have since learned that Mr. Hague has withdrawn his name 
and refuses to take part. If this be the case, Mr. Hague will 
certainly owe the Society some explanation, as he should have 
withdrawn his name at the time of the election and not put the 
Society to such inconvenience. Mr. Campbell’s motion, of 
which he had given notice, was then taken up. He moved, 
“ that for the better regulation of the subjects for debate, this 
Society do adopt the following rules : I. That the Correspond- 

ing-Secretary do keep a list or book to be called the Debate 
Book. II. Any member proposing a subject for debate shall 
do so by inscribing the same in the said book. III. Any mem- 
ber may become opposer in the debate on such subject by writ- 
ing his name opposite the subject so proposed. Members of 
the committee shall signify their approval of any subject so 
proposed by initialing the same, and no subject shall be debated 
which is not initialled by a majority of the members of the 
committee. IV. If more than one subject so become eligible 
for debate, that approved by most members of the committee 
shall be the subject at the next meeting of the Society not 
otherwise occupied. The subject having the next greatest 
number approving shall be appointed for the succeeding night.” 
The general opinion was that these rules were too cumbersome 
and they were consequently modified and passed in a simplified 
form. The gist of the regulation, as it now stands, is that the 
Corresponding-Secretary is to keep a suggestion book in which 
subjects may be entered by any member for the approval of 
the committee. 

It was moved by Mr. McGoun, seconded by Mr. Campbell 
and carried, that all the expenses authorized by the committee 
in connection with the public debate be defrayed by the Society 
at large and not by the speakers. 

The debate was then proceeded with. The subject, “ Is the 
Malthusian Theory Sound ?” was argued on the affirmative by 
Messrs. Cross and R. J. Elliot, and on the negative by Messrs. 
McGoun and Oughtred. The decision of the meeting was in 
favor of the affirmative. On the 8th inst. there was no meet- 
ing on account of the carnival. 



The Senate of Queen’s University endeavor to have the ex- 
aminations for matriculation in medicine made equal with the 
examination in Arts. The Senate of Victoria College has been 
asked to co-operate. The matter has been referred to a committee. 

The twenty-sixth examinations under the auspices of the 
Cambridge University Syndicate have obtained a much larger 
entry than ever before. The total number of candidates is : — 
Boys, 5,010, as compared with 4,574 last year ; girls, 3,277, as 
compared with 3,066 last year. 

The number of years a medical student must study before he 
receives a degree is, in Sweden ten, Norway eight, Denmark 
seven, Belgium, Holland, Italy and Switzerland six, Russia, 
Portugal, Austria and Hungary five, France. England and Cana- 
da four, United States three or two and Spain two. — Ex. 

The cadets of the Mass. Inst, of Technology in Boston gave 
the first exhibition of their drill in the gymanasium on January 
1 2th before a thousand spectators. After the drill was over the 
cadets and their friends danced for the remainder of the after- 
noon, as many as fifty-six sets being on the floor at one time. 

The Christmas number of the Dalhousie Gazette contained a 
long article on Lord Lome and Lord Lansdowne, which, 
although rather inclined to sentimentalism, was well written and 
interesting. The rest of the paper was practical and well filled 
with news. It contained, of course, the inevitable Christmas 
articles. 

Mr. Alexander G. Richey, Q.C., LL.D., Deputy Regius 
Professor of Feudal and English Law in the University of 
Dublin, an able lawyer and a learned historian, died on the 29th 
November last, in his fifty-fourth year. Mr. Henry Brougham 
Leech, Professor of International Law, has been appointed as 
his successor. 

The December number of the V. P. Journal contained some 
interesting selections. Of the contributed articles the only ones 
worth notice are “ A Plea for the Study of Classics,” “ What 
is Truth V and “ Sketches in China.” A plea for denomina- 
tional colleges and some editorial notes make up in large 
measure the rest of the paper. 

The Thielensian , published by the literary societies of Thiel 
College, Pa., came to us for the first time in December. One 
of the articles advocates the teaching of penmanship in colleges. 
We presume that something different is understood by a col- 
lege from what we generally mean by the term. Surely men 
ought not to enter college before they at least know how to 
read and write. 



General. 

Several Yale men are making arrangements to start an il- 
lustrated college paper. 

A College residence is being advocated for the University 
of New Brunswick, Fredericton. 

The annual expense incident to the foundation of Fellow- 
ships at Toronto University will amount to $5,000. — Dalhousie 
Gazette . 

An excellent portrait of Samuel Rogers, the poet, has been 
presented to Harvard College by Dr. William Everett, and it 
will be hung in Memorial Hall. 

The “ Trinummus ” of Plautus has lately been performed by 
the Queen’s Scholars at Westminster, with that accuracy and 
finish for which the “ Westminster Play ” has long been famous. 1 



Out of a population of 25,000,000, England sends out 5,000 
students to her two universities. Scotland, with a population 
of 4,000,000, has 6,500 university students, and Germany, 
with a population of 43,000,000, has 22,500 in her various 
universities. The New England States, with a population of 
4,110,000, send nearly 4,000 students to their eighteen col- 
leges and universities. 

The Christmas number of the King's College Record contained 
twenty-six pages of reading matter. A letter from Cambridge, 
giving a glimpse of the University life there, was very interest- 
ing. The poem on “The Forests of Nova Scotia,” is the best 
which we have seen for some time in a college paper. The 
same number contains a sketch of the life and writings of Judge 
Haliburton. The Record is on the whole a credit to Canadian 
journalism. 



10 



MoGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1884. 



William and Mary College of Virginia has closed its doors, 
having but one student at the beginning of this school year. 
Next to Harvard, this was the oldest college in America, hav- 
ing been founded in 1693, and was the only one that received 
a royal charter. Among the most eminent men educated in its 
halls were Washington, Marshall, Randolph, Tyler, Breckin- 
ridge and General Scott. 

The Association for the Education of Women in Oxford has 
issued its notice of lectures to be given in the Lent term, in- 
cluding a list of those University and College lectures which are 
open to students of the association. For the first time a lady 
is placed upon the list of lecturers of the association. Mrs. 
Marshall will lecture on Political Economy, taking for her sub- 
ject — Labour ; the economic conditions of its well-being. The 
courses of lectures began on Monday, January 21. The asso- 
ciation have instituted a system of instruction by correspond- 
ence, particulars of which may be obtained of Mrs. Ewing, 1 7, 
St. Giles, Oxford. 

The East London Union For Advanced Education evening 
classes have, during the last four years, been doing much good 
work among the young men employed or resident in that 
populous district. The Union purposes now by a widely- 
extended organization, to maintain in the East of London an 
educational centre, where instruction in the higher branches of 
knowledge will for the lowest possible fees be afforded by 
teachers of well-ascertained ability. The work began with four 
classes, and the number at the present time is thirty-four, which 
have been attended by 4,200 students, 1,000 of whom may be 
reckoned for the present session. The Duke of Albany is 
President. 

Acta Victoriana defends the practice of hazing in the fol- 
lowing words: “Nearly all Freshmen are conceited. It is 
natural for them to be so. While preparing for matriculation, 
they were the senior pupils of some High School or Collegiate 
Institute, and gradually formed the idea that they were ex- 
tremely clever, and this idea breathes forth in every word and 
gesture. If such young men were not checked, this idea would 
keep on developing, and by the time of graduation the presence 
of the students would be intolerable. Hence we see the neces- 
sity of an antidote or remedy of some kind which fortunately 
we have, and it is no other than that misrepresented and abused 
practice. — Hazing. ” 

The University Quarterly , published at New York Univer- 
sity, entered upon its seventh volume in November. In general 
appearance the Quarterly could hardly be surpassed. An ex- 
cellent portrait of J ohn Hall adorns and enhances the value of 
the journal. Six or seven pages are taken up with book re- 
views, and a large number with matters of purely local interest. 
The editorials and contributions exhibit a fair amount of ability, 
but, on the whole, they are not above the average. In an article 
on the “Need of the Moral Element in Education,” the writer 
makes a most absurd attack upon the promoters of secular edu- 
cation, accusing them, among other things, of wishing to exclude 
all moral teaching and to interdict all religious instruction. He 
ought to have known that they do not wish to exclude purely 
moral teaching, and, with regard to religious teaching, that they 
merely object to its being paid for by the State. 

Anandibai Joshee, a Hindoo woman of the highest Brah- 
minical caste, is a student in the Woman's Medical College of 
Pennsylvania. The mark indicative of her rank is on her fore- 
head. She is said to be the first Brahmin woman who ever 
left India. One of the principal articles in the Brahminical 
faith strictly enjoins that no Brahmin shall cross the ocean. 
She is scarcely five feet in height, and, although quite plump, is 
graceful in her motions. In order to keep her caste while here 
she must live by herself, prepare her own food, wear the native 
costume, and rigidly observe certain religious rites. If she is 
faithful in these things, when she returns to India there will be 
a meeting of the principal Brahmins, who will hear her confes- 
sions, and then absolve her from her transgressions. She is 
highly educated, and a remarkable linguist, speaking seven lan- 
guages fluently, among them Sanscrit. She was asked if she 
had any difficulty in acquiring English. “ Oh, no,” she replied, 



“it was very easy after Sanscrit. My husband taught me. I 
studied English five years with him, but I did not speak it at 
all until I went on board ship.” She speaks so well that it is 
difficult to believe this, and she writes better than she speaks. 
— Ex. 

President White has received a letter from G.P. Pome- 
roy, United States Consul-General at Cairo, Egypt, dated Dec. 
13, 1883, stating that the Egyptian mummy secured for Cor- 
nell University by that gentleman would leave Cairo for Liver- 
pool en route to this country at once. Inclosed is a report by 
Emile Brugsch Bey, a Director of the Museum of Egyptian 
Antiquities. The mummy, he says, probably belongs to the 
twenty-third dynasty, and came from the Necropolis of Thebes. 
It is that of a man named Peupi. The mummy is enveloped 
in pasteboard or cartonnage, which is painted in bright colors 
with many figures and texts. On the head is the sacred beetle, 
and on the breast the sketch of a necklace imitating pearls and 
other precious stones. The lower part shows a vulture with a 
man's head, holding in its claws some seals, the emblem of 
eternity. Under the vulture is to be seen a sparrow hawk 
spread over the mummy, and also holding a seal in each claw. 
Another picture is that of the serpent Aracus, followed by the 
god Osiris, before whom the deceased Peupi is seen in adora- 
tion. The middle of the pasteboard, commencing from the 
lower part of the sparrow hawk, represents the sacred emblem 
of the god Osiris, and contains the following inscription : 

“ Praseyn^me to Osiris, the god of Amenti, the good god, the 
ruler of Abydos, may he give good repose to Peupi, the justi- 
fied.” A number of other pictures and texts appear, the latter 
giving the names of the different divinities and the formulae of 
offerings. 

The subject of the appointment of a professorship of the 
languages of South-Eastern Asia, having been for some time un- 
der consideration by the Senate of University College, London, 
it has now been decided to appoint M. Terrien de la Couprie 
to be the first occupant of the chair. The special study which 
the new professor has made of the comparative relationship of 
Chinese and the Indo-Chinese group of languages will add con- 
siderable importance to his lectures upon the languages and 
literature of those nations now so prominent in the Franco- 
Chinese question. M. De la Couprie has for some time been 
prominent as the advocate of a new and at first sight startling 
theory of the origin of Chinese writing and literature, a partial 
exposition of which he put forward in his recent learned and 
lengthy study of the “ Ti-King,” the oldest book of the Chinese, 
published in the journal of the Royal Asiatic Society. In this 
work, and in his monograph on the origin of Chinese civiliza- 
tion, he has endeavoured to establish a connection between the 
early Chinese Bak tribes, or Hundred Families, and the 
Akkadian tribes of Babylonia. This theory has received the 
support of some of the leading students of Asyriology, and also 
of Professor Douglas, who, in conjunction with M. De la 
Couprie, will publish a complete translation with notes and 
commentary of the “ Ti King .” — London Times. 



' 28 ef«>een the ^Slectured. 



THE PRETTY YASSAR SENIOR. 
Did you on the Campus pass her ? 

That’s the finished maid of Vassar, 

Whose wisdom — like Minerva’s —mighty, 
Blends with the charm of Aphrodite. 

With language elegant and tropic. 

She can handle any topic. 

And will thrill you, if it suits her, 

Till your heart’s not worth a kreutzer. 

Owner of a thousand graces, 

Decked in satin, silk and laces, 

And deep diamonds that so glisten, 

Forth she comes ; oh, let us listen. 

Now your whole mind she’ll be teasing, 
With things Asian, Roman, Grecian, 



1884.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



11 



Take you through without apologies, 

All the ologies and mythologies. 

She knows Shakespeare’s, Goethe’s fancies, 
New books, phamphlets and romances — 
German mind-mists pessimistic, 

And that night-mare Nihilistic. 

Every reign and revolution, 

Chemistry and evolution, 

Stars and suns and epochs, during 
Ages past and pre-Silurian. 



The very Cr itch ton of a daughter— 

She rides a horse and rules the water- 
works at the easel, and can play 
Lawn-tennis, archery and croquet. 

She can tell each tongue’s declension, 

Talks of Azimuth, right ascension, 

And gives 'you tunes— there is no fagging her— 
Of Schubert, Mendelssohn and Wagner. 



Fascinating, fawn-like creature, 

Fair in form and fine in feature. 

Sweet as a zephyr from Samatra, 

A pretty, rose-lipped Cleopatra. 

—Joel Benton. 

Examination Papers. 



There can be no doubt whatever, that the unusually brilliant 
answering in the Primary Medical Examinations last year was 
entirely due to the students having prepared themselves by a 
careful study of the examination papers which were published 
upon those subjects in the Gazette last year. At the urgent re- 
quest of the faculty, therefore, we publish a similar set this 
year upon the final subjects, feeling sure that the same satis- 
factory results will ensue and that thus a long felt want will be 
supplied. 

HYGIENE. 

1 . Where withal shall a young man cleanse his way ? 

2. What circumstances would lead you to kill a given Plum- 
ber ? How would you perform the experiment ? 



MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. 

1. What is the best way to persuade the coroner that an au- 
topsy is necessary in a given case ? 

2. Describe Acute Primary Dementia. In your own case 
was it succeeded by Alcoholic mania the day after the exams 
and by Melancholia when you found you were plucked ? 

medicine. 

1 . How would you diagnose between a case of Empyema and 
a case of Champagne ? What is the effect of each upon the sys- 
tem ? Is the treatment the same ? 

2. Give the aetiology and morbid anatomy of the following 
diseases : — 

(a) De Ho vo. ( b ) Great Jawcoo. ( c ) Tempus Fugit. ( d ) 
Pro tanto. (e) Tomassy Crudeely. (f) Sui Generis. \g) 
Similia Similibus curantur. 

3. Tell all you know about Damphinomyosis. 

SURGERY. 

1. What is Frank Hamilton? Draw diagram to prove it. 

2. Who struck Billy Patterson? What fracture did he 
probably produce and how would you treat it ? 

3. Tell the best “ builet story ” you know. — (Question num- 
ber 3 is for honor men only.) 

OPHTHALMOLOGY. 

1. How would you diagnose a bully boy with a glass eye from 
a case of acute glaucoma ? 

2. Give the diagnostic points between a case of alcoholic 
amaurosis and a “blind drunk.” 

3. Demonstrate the use of a big big D in performing an 

operation on the eye. 

CLINICAL SURGERY. 

1. What fee would you charge for making a free incision? 

2, What is the best antiseptic to use in severe case of Christ- 
mas decoration ? Is it advisable to place the nurses under a 
spray of mistletoe during the operation ? 

(No diagrams allowed.) 



3. What structures could you cut through in the course of a 
few hours spent in hunting for the Anterior Tibial Artery by 
torchlight ? 

CLINICAL MEDICINE. 

1 . Can you diagnose a case of alibi from one of felo de se ? 
I can’t. 

2. Where are the reports to-day ? (No answer is expected 
to this question.) 

3. How many times is it necessary to walk a patient up and 
down the ward in order to diagnosticate cerebral hemorrhage in 
a case of Thrombosis ? If so — why so ? If not — why not ? 
Prove it. 

MIDWIFERY. 

1 . Which would you rather do or read Lusk ? 

2. What stimulant do you prefer taking before attempting to 
break the news gently to the unhappy father if it happens to 
be twins ? If so, how much ? Write formula in full. 

GYNECOLOGY. 

1. How might Cavalo’s oyster stews act (a) as a predispos- 
ing cause, ( b ) as an exciting cause ; (1) of Chronic Cervical En- 
dometritis, (2) of Subacute Perimetritis ? How might Christ- 
mas cards act? How might Johnston’s Fluid Beef and 
Souvielle’s Spirometer act? How might Vennor’s thaw act? 
How might almost anything act? (Write legibly and on one 
side of the paper only.) 

2. Name if possible a Gynaecologist who has never christened 
a speculum, modified a pessary, or tried to perform Lawson Tait’s 
operation. (This question inserted by special request of Bar- 
num, who wishes to obtain such a man for his show.) 

A Jew’s Eye to Business. 

A Jew, who was condemned to be hung, was brought to the 
gallows and w r as about to be turned off, when a reprieve arrived. 
He stayed to see a fellow-prisoner hanged, and on being asked 
why he didn’t go about his business, answered, — “ I’m waiting 
to see if I can bargain with Mr. Ketch for the other gentleman’s 
clothes.” 

The Dalhousie Poet thus records the deeds of their “ Nine 
Forwards at Windsor” in the football match with King’s 
College : — 

“ Peeled all their shins were, 

Peeled but they did not care, 

Charging the King’s men there, 

Slipping and sprawling while 
Onlookers hollered. 

Plunged in the mud and muck, 

Right through the line they broke. 

All of the King’s men 
Reeled, when Dalhousie “ kuck,” 

Shattered, disordered. 

Then they limped back, but not 
Not the Nine Forwards.” 

A Learned professor, who rashly engaged in an argument 
with Mr. Greeley on the subject of the value of a classical edu- 
cation, was at last driven in despair to his last argument. He 
said : — “You must admit, Mr. Greeley, that the Greek and 
Latin are the conduits through which all the learning of the 
ancients comes down to us.” “ I do,” replied Mr. Greeley, “but 
during the day I drink several glasses of Croton water. Is it 
therefore necessary that I should first breakfast upon lead pipe? 

A Country schoolmaster, who never wrote so much as a 
pamphlet, told a census officer that he was engaged in the pro- 
fession of literature. 

One of our younger aspirants for mathematical distinctions 
upon hearing the other day that the University was about to 
present an illuminated address to the Governor-General inno- 
cently enquired if it was to be illuminated by electric light, 
and was quite disappointed when his informant told him that 
they were only going to use a coal oil lamp. 

NEW BOOKS. 

Walbank.— Adjustments of the Dumpy Level ; Rosinini.— Origin of 
Ideas, vol. 1 ; Green.— Prolegomena to Ethics ; Maudsley.— Body and 
Will; Kant’s Prolegomena and Metaphysical Foundations of Natural 
Science ; Zeller.— Eclecticism and Greek Philosophy ; Benn.— The Greek 
Philosophers -2 vols.; Sidgwick.— Principles of Political Economy ; Jamin. 
—Cours de Physique— 4th vol.; British Association for the Advancement 
of Science — Reports from 1877 to 1882, 6 vols. 

M. W. Taylor, 

Library, 29th January, 1884. Asst. Librarian. 



12 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1884 . 



S. CARSLEY’S 

BLACK JERSEYS. 

COLORED JERSEYS. 

S. CARSLEY’S 

GENTS’ FURNISHINGS. 

GENTS’ FURNISHINGS. 

S. CARSLEY’S 

DRESS AND MANTLE SILKS. 

S. CARSLEY’S 

LADIES’ LINED KID GLOVES. 

s. CARSLEY'S 

CHILDREN’S SILK HOSIERY. 

S. CARSLEY’S 

BLANKETS FOR COSTUMES. 

S. CARSLEY’S 

REAL LACE FICHUS. 

S. CARSLEY'S 

SATIN CORSETS. 

FRENCH CORSETS. 

S. CARSLEY’S 

GENTS’ SILK UMBRELLAS. 

S. CARSLEY’S 

BLACK BROCADED SILKS. 

S. CARSLEY’S 

GUIPURE D’ART CURTAINS. 

S. CARSLEY’S 

OPERA KID GLOVES, all lengths. 

s. CARSLEY’S 

GENTLEMEN’S SILK HOSIERY. 

S. CARSLEY’S 

LADIES’ SILK UMBRELLAS. 

S. CARSLEY’S 

REAL LACE. 

S. CARSLEY’S 

LADIES’ KID GLOVES. 

S. CARSLEY, 

38/, 389, 391, 393, 395, 39/ and 399 NOIRE DAME STREET, 

W2&w£,k®mt we®€® J umiriEm 2 



PHOTOGRAPHS by ELECTRIC LIGHT 



PHOTOGRAPHS MADE EVERY EVENING AT 




251 ST. JAMES STREET. 



NEXT DOOR TO H. MORGAN & CO. 

A LIBERAL DISCOUNT GIVEN TO STUDENTS. 
OPEN EVENING FROM 7 TO 11. 
PLEASE CA T 1T1 AND SEE SPECIMENS. 

P.S.— The only place in the Province where Pictures are taken by Electric 
Light. 

~ ♦*£!. ASHFOKB’S ~ 

few feel and Stationery ||of 

(one door west of his old stand) 

Medical Books, 

Students’ Note Books, 
Dissecting Cases and Scalpels, 

(BY WEISS & SON,) 

CHEAP FOR CASH. 

looks procured to order from England and the United States, 

6781 AND 680 DORCHESTER ST. 

MOHTJHEA3L. 



UNIVERSITY OF 

BISHOP’S+COLLEGE 



V9 



-MONTIiBAJU 



FACULTY OF MEDICINE 

SESSION OF 1884-85. 



HE Fourteenth Winter Session of this Faculty will open 
^ on the first Tuesday in October, 1884. The Faculty of 
Medicine of Bishop’s College bases its claim for public 
support upon the thoroughly practical character of its in 
struction, and the fact that the means at its disposal for thi 
purpose are not excelled by any medical school in Canada. 
Its Diploma is recognized by the Royal College of Physicians, 
Edinburgh ; the Royal College of Surgeons, England ; and the Royal 
College of Physicians, London. Students have the option of attending 
the practice of either the Montreal General Hospital (200 beds), or of the 
Hotel Dieu Hospital (200 beds), both of which institutions have a staff 
who regularly and systematically visit them. At the Montreal General 
Hospital excellent facilities are afforded for the study of Practical Pathology, 
under the direction of the Pathologist of the Hospital. The practice of the 
Montreal Dispensary — where spendid opportunity is afforded to learn Dis- 
pensing — is open to the Students of Bishop’s College. 

The Woman’s Department of the Western Hospital, under the 
supervision of this Faculty, is divided into two departments— Obstetrical 
and Gynecological. The Obstetrical Department is under the control of 
the Professor of Midwifery, and affords to Students a field unequalled in 
the Dominion— in fact this Department has made Bishop’s College the 
Midwifery School of Canada. The Gynecological Department is attended 
by the Professors of Bishop’s College, and is the only Hospital of its kind in 
the Dominion. Opportunity is here afforded to see most of the operations 
in this important Department of Surgery. 

Two Gold Medals (“ The Wood” and the “ Robert Nelson” Gold 
Medals) and the “Dr. David” Scholarship are competed for annually. 

Fees, about the same as at the other Medical Schools in Canada, but a 
Student who pays the cost of the entire course on the commencement of his 
studies is able to effect considerable reduction. 

FACULTY = 



F. W. CAMPBELL, ALA., M.D., L.R.C.P. Lond., Dean, Professor of Principles and 
Practice of Mediciue, consulting Physician Montreal Dispensary, Physioian to 
Western Hospital. 

J. BAKER EDWARDS, Ph. D., D.C.L., Emeritus Professor of Practical Chemistry. 

R. A. KENNEDY, M.A., M.D., C.M., Professor of Obstetrics and Disease* of Children, 
Consulting Physician Montreal Dispensary, Physician to and Superintendent of the 
Obstetrical Department of the Western Hospital. 

J. PERRIGO, A.M., M.D.. C.M., M.R.C.S. Eng., Professor of Surgery, Physician to and 
Medical Secretary Western Hospital. 

J. B. McCONNELL, M.A., ALD m C.AL, Professor of Materia Medico, Phyaician Western 
Hospital and Montreal Dispensary. 

CASEY A. WOOD, C.AL. M.D.. Professor of Pathology, Physician Western Hospital. 

GEORGE E. ARMSTRONG, M.D., Professor of Physiology, Physician Western Hospital. 

JAMES C. CAMERON, M.D.,C.A1., AI.R.C.P I., Registrar, Professor of Medical Juris* 
prudence, Physician to Montreal General Hospital and Western Hospital. 

THOMAS SIMPSON, M.D., Professor Hygiene, Physician to Montreal General Hospi- 
tal, Consulting Physiciau Western Hospital. 

E. H. TRENHOLME. ALD., C.Af., B.C.L., Professor of Gynaecology, Consulting Phy- 
sician Montreal Dispensary, Physician Western Hospital. 

WM. YOUNG, CAL, M.D., Professor of Chemistry. 

J. LESLIE FOLEY, C.AL, ALD., L.R.C.P. Load., Professor of Anatomy. Physician 
Alontreal Dispensary. 

H. L. REDDY; B.A., ALD., L.R.C.S.E., L.R.C.P.L., Professor of Therapeutics. 

A. LAPTHORN SMITH, B.A., M.D., M.R.C.S. Eng., Professor ot Botany. Physician 
Alontreal Dispensary. 

LECTURERS IN SPECIAL DEPARTMENTS. 



JOSEPH BEMROSE, F.C.S.. Leoturer on Practical Chemistry. 

ALEXANDER PROUDFOOT, M.D.. C.M., Lecturer on Disease of the Eye, Ear and 
Throat, Oculist to Montreal Dispensary and Western Hospital. 

D. D. GARERTY, C.M., M.D., Demonstrator of Anatomy. 

ANTHONY KERRY. C.M., M.D., Curator of Museum. 



For Circulars giving every requisite information apply to the Dean 

t0 JAMES C. CAMERON, M.D., C.M., M.R.C.P.I., 



Montreal, December, 1883. 



Registrar, Montreal . 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 





OPTICIAN, 

185 St. James Street, 

MONTREAli. 



Importer and Manufacturer 

OP 

M 1 CH 05 C 0 PE 5 , 

SURVEYING, 

MATHEMATICAL 

AND 

SCIENTIFIC INSTRUMENTS. 



O. HILL, 

XO PHILLIPS SQUARE, 

Bookseller and Stationer. 

English and American Periodicals 

And Illustrated Works • 
All Hlincls of Stationery. 

Cards Engraved — Orders for England, for Town and Country, or the 
United States, promptly attended to. Postage Stamps. 




J. B. DUROCHER, Proprietor. 



JACQUES CARTIER SQUARE, opp, COURT HOUSE and CITY HALL 

OVE O NTH S-A. Xj . 



The above Hotel is the best in the city for McGill College Dinners. 



WM. HOTMAH & SOH, 



BROWN & SONS®*- 




Mersfiatit • Tailors, 

* 

SHIRT & COLLAR MANUFACTURERS 



17 and 19 BLEURY STREET, 

MONTREAL. 



^WILLIAM SAMUELS 

S67 Notre Dame Street, 



— IMPORTER OF — 




From tli© Best Englisli Malxers, 

— AND — 

Manufacturer of FINE FURS. 



Highest Award for PINE FUF.S, Dominion Exhibition, 1880. 
Fourteen First Prizes and Gold Medal, Provincial Exhibition, 1881. 

367 Notre Dame Street, Montreal. 



SUMMERHAYES &WALF 0 KD 




No. 1 BLEURY STREET, 



ONTREAU* r 

03T special XZates for Students.*®^ 



21 BLEURY STREET, 

NEXT DOOR TO NOTMAN’S. 

.A. SPECIAL ZDISCOTTZSTT TO STTTI5EITTS- 

DAWSON BROTHERS. 

BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS, 

HAVE REMOVED TO 

INTO. 233 ST. JAMES STREET. 

SIGN OF THE GOLDEN OWL 

ALL TEXT BOOKS 

IN USE 

IN THE COLLEGES 

OF 

CANADA. 

SIGN OF “"HE GOLDEN OWL. 

NO. S3 3 ST. JAMES STEEET, 

NEAR VICTORIA SQUARE. 

DAWSON BROTHERS. 

BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS 






McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 




PHOTOGR A PHER 



141— ST. PETER STREET— 141 



All the latest improvements adopted, including 
the INSTANTANEOUS PROCESS, $c., 8pc. 

COMPOSITION GROUPS executed with intelli- 
gent regard to established rules of art- 

m- Cabinet Photographs of HERBERT SPENCER, 
taken on his recent visit to this city, for sale. Pnce 
50 cents- 

— •o-'S- TELEPHONE COMMUNICATION — 



L. ROBINSON, 

LATE OF 

LONDON, ENGLAND, 




HENRY GRANT & SON, 

26 Bearer Hall Terrace. 



Students' Eye Shades, 



CLINICAL ? 222 L' 0 L'£TEES, 
MICROSCOPES, 
BAROMETERS, &C. 



Crj 1 ' 
spECTACif 



O IP TIC 1 AH, 5, 

fyT WATCH-MASSES, 

CATO^ JE W ELLERS. 



Fashionable Tailor 

31 BEAVER HALL. 



EIE^.IDQTT-A.E,TS!E,S 

— FOR — 



-£DRYS DALE’S*- 

232 ST- Tames S'fcx'ee'b. 

» ■» 



Medical Works, Books used in Art Course, 

Science Text Books, 

The various Theological Text Books- 

Full assortment in stock and suooiied at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

SCRIBBLING BOOKS, $c-, Sf C ., 

BEST VALUE IN TOWN. 

Stylo graphic Pens, Jlnti-Stylo Pais and Students* 
Supplies a Specialty • 

WV ® I5JS3TSXj)^\Xj]IE <&, COo 

232 St;. J ames Sljnreel^ 

ALSO 

Branch Store: 1423 St. Catherine St. 



