(VlcGlbls FOHTNIGHTbV 

A Fortnightly Journal of Literature, University Thought and Event. 



VOL. III. 



MONTREAL, FEBRUARY 22, 1894. 



No. 10 






EDITORIAL BOARD 



Homer M. Jaquays, B.A. (App. Sc. ’96). 
Secretary — Miss L. E, Armstrong (Donalda ’95). 

C, H. Zink (Com, Med. and Vef. Sc. *95). Wm. Donahue, B.A, (Law ’96). 
H. M. Kinghorn, B.A., M.D, (Grads. Soc.) E. Commins, B.A. (Med, *95). 

C. J. Hickson (Arts ’95), 



^ BUSINESS BOARD ^ 



E. B. Devlin B.A., (Law *95), Chairman, 

A. F. Edwards (Med. *96). Miss E. A, Hammond (Donalda ’96). 

A. R. Holden, B.A, (Sc, ’95). J. C, Cutting (Com. Med. and Vet. Sc. '95). 

A. E, Gordon (Arts ’96). 



The McGill Fortnightly is published by the Students of the University , 
on the Friday of every second week during the College Session. | 

The annual subscription is ]^i.oo, payable strictly in advance. Remittance to 1 
be made to the Chairman of the Business Board, 85 Union [Avenue, Montreal. , 
Single copies may be obtained at Wm. Drysdale & Co.'s, E. M. RenouPs, Cyrus 
Ashford’s, Chapman's and W. Foster Brown's, Booksellers. Price, 10 cents. 
Address Contributions to Editor-in- Chief, 963 Dorchester Street, Montreal. 



EDITORIAL COMMENTS. 



In our last number we mentioned the visit of 
two undergraduates from Toronto University Col- ' 
lege, who won glory by winning the debate in the 
Molson Hall. Last week McGill was favoured with 
a visit from a somewhat larger delegation, consisting 
of the thirty or forty young men comprising the 
University of Toronto Glee and Banjo Clubs. 

Probably no better opportunity has ever occurred, ^ 
and indeed it would be hard to imagine a better one, i 
for the students of our own and Toronto University, 
to become acquainted with one another, and the re- 
membrance of this recent visit will, with us at least, 
long remain as a most pleasing one. ! 

Our acquaintance with our Western friends has ^ 
unfortunately been in the past altogether too slight, 
and for the most part confined to the football field. ' 
Consequently, the question now arises— Can Ave not 
do something to promote and extend our knowledge 
of each other .? The idea of a joint concert, to be given j 
by the musical societies of the two Universities, if it | 



were possible to bring it about, had already pre- 
sented itself to our mind, when, shortly before going 
to press, we received the letter which we publish in this 
issue, touching both the subject of a joint concert and 
that of “Sports’ Night,” The magnitude of the un- 
dertaking proposed by our correspondent seems at 
first sight a serious obstacle, but we believe our Glee 
and Banjo Club quite capable of carrying it through, if 
they are assured of the support of the undergraduates. 



We must suggest to our Class Reporters that 
the .session is not finished, that the FORTNIGHTLY 
has to make a few more appearances, and that class 
reports will be in order for some time yet. Surely 
anyone could spare the few moments each day neces- 
sary to jot down class events, while very few do it. 
The reporter must not forget his importance, — the 
success of our paper depends in no small degree upon 
his efforts. 



It is to be regretted that the concert given in 
the Windsor Hall by the Varsity Glee and Banjo 
Clubs was not better attended. Its excellence can- 
not be c]uestioned, and we congratulate Toronto upon 
the high standing of its club. 



This seems to be a season of dinners, drives, etc. 
The dinners, if we may judge from reports, have been 
all that could be desired, while the drives (we rely 
upon the tales of the participants) are unparalleled in 
the annals of the College, likewise the Conversazione. 
This is the general relaxation from work preparatory, 
we presume, for the final struggle so soon to be upon 
us. Verily, “ every cloud has a silver lining,” the holi- 
days are not far distant. 



CORRESPONDENCE 

Editor McGill Fortnightly ; 

Dear Sir, 

At a meeting of the executive committee of the 
McGill Glee and Banjo clubs, lately held, the question 
of a joint concert was discussed for “ Sports’ Night” 
next October. With the view of bringing the matter 



i68 



MCGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



before the Students for their consideration, may I be 
allowed to present the following suggestions? i. That 
the Harvard Banjo Club, Yale Glee Club and the 
Toronto Glee Club be asked to assist our own in a 
joint concert, to be held in either the Academy of 

Music or the Oueen’s Theatre, on the evening of the 

^ 

annual games of the Athletic Association. 2. That 
the presidents of the junior Years of all the Faculties 
be requested to bring the matter before their respec- 
tive Years for their approval and promise of support. 

You can readily understand the advantages to be 
derived by such an undertaking, in bringing together 
the men of four of the leading Universities of America. 
It seems almost a dream to think that McGill could 
do this, yet the offer of our organization is distinct. 
Let the students promise to attend, as they usually 
do on such an occasion, and the Glee and Banjo clubs 
of McGill will undertake to provide the entertain- 
ment for themselves and their guests. 

Thanking you, Mr. Editor, for the space in the 
Fortnightly this letter will occupy, 

I remain. 

Yours heartily, 

R. A. GUNN, 

Business Matia^er 

McGill Glee and Banjo Clubs. 



irresistibly to conclude that the former are but imi- 
tations of the latter, or, in other words, that the border- 
minstrelsy furnished the models upon which the 
songs of the midland districts were constructed. At all 
events, the superiority of the Northern poetry seems 
undeniable. 

Whatever opinions may prevail as to the real date 
and character of “ the gentle thiefe,” as he is called by 
Stowe, it is sufficiently clear that it was of Robin 
Hood, the hero of Sherwood Forest and “ the prince 
of outlaws,” that the minstrels of Edward Ill’s reign, 
and perhaps earlier, were accustomed to sing, and 
whose reputed kindness to the poorer classes at 
the expense of the rich rendered his memory so dear 
to the popular heart, and his exploits the favourite 
theme of the songs of the common people of Eng- 
land. 

Of these, perhaps one of the best which we possess 
is the ballad entitled “ Robin Hood and Guy of 
Gisborne;” and of this we will give a brief account, 
with a few 'specimens in illustration of its style and 
manner. The opening stanzas of the ballad are so 
fine that we cannot resist the temptation of quoting 
them, even at the risk of their being not altogether 
intelligible. The time is morning, and the hero is in- 
troduced as sleeping in the forest to the song of the 
thrush warbling among the green branches over his 
head : 



CONTRIBUTIONS. 

ENGLISH BALLAD POETRY. 

II. 

As a counterpart to the fine old border song of 
“ Chevy Chase,” we may next take a glance at some 
of the ballads which commemorate the exploits of 
the famous heroes of the midland counties, — the bold 
robber and outlaw, Robin Hood, with his compatiions 
Little John and his merry men of Sherwood Forest. 
And here it may be remarked that, although we 
occasionally meet with songs of this description, the 
origin and incidents of which are to be traced to the 
more southerly districts of England, and which are in- 
tended to celebrate local heroes and superstitions, we 
must, however, constantly bear in mind the fact that 
the home of the ballad-poetry is to be sought in the 
border counties of the two kingdoms of England and 
Scotland, more especially in those of the latter (for 
the superiority of the Scottish ballads seems to be 
universally admitted) ; and whenever, as in the case 
of the songs relating to Robin Hood, we find in- 
stances of apparent deviation from this rule, the 
many points of resemblance which the southern 
ballads present to the border lays lead us almost 



When shaws beene shine and shradds full fayre, 

And leaves both large and longe, 

Itt is merrye walking in the fayre forest, 

To hear the small birdes’ songe. 

The woodcock sang, and wold not cease, 

Sitting upon the spraye, 

So loude, he wakened Robin Hood, 

In the green wood where he lay. 

Now, by my fayre,’’ said jollye Robin, 

A sweavin I had this night ; 

I dreamt me of tow mighty yeomen, 

That fast with me can fight. 

“ Methought they did me beate and binde. 

And tooke my bow mee frae ; 

If I be Robin alive in this lande. 

I’ll be wroken on them tovve.” 

‘‘ Sweavins are swift, master,” quoth John, 

As the wind that bloes ore a hill ; 

For iff itt be never so loude this night. 

To-morrow it may be still.” 

Back yee, bourne yee, my merry men all, 

And John shall go with mee, 

For I’ll gae seeke yond wight yeomen. 

In greenwood where the bee.” 

Robin and his merry men, clad all in “ Lincoln 
green,” then sally out in search of the enemy. After 
going a short distance they come suddenly upon a 
“ wight yeoman ” leaning against a tree, armed with 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



169 



/ 



sword and dagger, and clothed in a garment made 
from a horse’s hide. Little John immediately offers 
to go to the stranger and question him as to his 
object in coming to the forest, but receives a stern 
rebuke from Robert Hood, who asks him : 

How offt send I my men beffore, 

And tarry myself behinde ?” 

High words ensue, which result in a separation of 
the two companions, Little John going to Barinsdale> 
where he finds that some of the band have fallen in- 
to the hands of the officers of justice, two of them 
having already been slain, while a third is hard pres- 
sed by the “sherriffe,” who with seven-score men is in 
pursuit of him. In the attempt to rescue him. Lit- 
tle John kills one of the sheriff’s men with an arrow, 
but is at last overpowered by the number of his ad- 
versaries, and bound to a tree, there to await the pen- 
alty of his misdeeds. In the meantime, Robin, who 
remains behind in the forest, makes the acquaintance 
of the stranger, w'hom he accosts in the following 
fashion : 

Good morrowe, good fellowe/’ sayd Robin so fay re, 

“ Good morrowe, good fellowe/’ quothe he; 

Methinks by this bowe thou heares in thy hande, 

A good archere thou shouldst bee.’^ 

The yeoman replies that he has lost his way in the 
forest, and that he is in search of Robin Hood, whom 
he would rather find “than fortye pound sae good.” 
Robin undertakes to guide him to the object of his 
search, but proposes that they should first amuse 
themselves with a trial of skill in archery by w^ay of 
pastime. Robin’s superiority having speedily be- 
come manifest, the stranger compliments him upon 
his skill, as follows : 

A blessing upon thy heart/’ he sayd, 

Good fellowe, thy shooting is goode ; 

For all thy hait be as good as thy hand 
Thou wert better than Robin Hoode. 

Now, tell me thy name, good fellowe,” sayd he, 
Under the leaves of lyne/’ 

“ Nay, by my faith,’’ quoth bolde Robin, 

“ Till thou hast told me thine.” 

1 dwell by dale and downe,” quoth he, 

“ And Robin to take I’ve sworn ; 

And when I am called by my right name, 

I am Guye of good Gisborne,” 

My dwelling is in this wood,” sayes Robin, 

‘‘ By thee I set right nought ; 

I am Robin Hood of Barinsdale, 

Whom thou so long hast sought.” 

Here the dialogue abruptly terminates, as we 
should naturally expect, and the two heroes ad- 
vance to mortal combat. The battle continued, we 
are told, “ two hours of a summer’*s day,” and Robin, 
having accidentally stumbled over a root, gives his 
adversary a temporary advantage. The thought. 



however, of the Blessed Virgin coming into his 
mind, he soon leaps up again and slays his antago- 
nist, whose head he cuts off and mangles in such a 
manner that it can never be recognized. He then 
clothes himself in the yeoman’s dress, throws his 
own garment over the dead body, and blowing a 
blast upon Guy’s horn sets out in search of his com- 
panions. The sheriff, recognizing the sound of the 
horn, supposes it to be the signal of Robin’s defeat, 
a supposition which is greatly strengthened by the 
appearance of Robin in Guy of Gisborne’s attire, 
but which is speedily dispelled by the conduct of 
our hero, who immediately proceeds to set Little 
John at liberty, and, putting Guy’s bow in his hand, 
prepares to act upon the defensive. The sheriff, 
having observed this proceeding, is seized with a 
sudden desire to be gone, and accordingly, as the 
concluding verse of the ballad informs us: 

Towards his home in Nottingham towne 
He fled full fast away ; 

And so did all his companye : 

Not one behind would staye. 

They do not escape, however, without a parting 
salutation from Little John, who, by means of a well- 
directed arrow, shoots the sheriff in the back as he 
is riding off at a full gallop. 

Such then is one of the numerous songs in w'hich 
Robin Hood and his band are made to figure con- 
spicuously, and of which the one just noticed may, 
w^e suppose, be regarded as a tolerably fair example, 
both as respects their style and their sentiment as 
well. 

We now come to a class of ballads which are es- 
pecially interesting from the fact that they appear 
to be faithful transcripts, in ballad form, of original 
French or Anglo-Norman poems, the subjects as 
well as the main incidents of the story being in gen- 
eral faithfully adhered to and preserved ; whence we 
are led to conclude, with a late writer upon English 
literature, that inasmuch as our oldest ballads are 
in many instances simply fragments or abridgments 
of the metrical romances of early times, it seems 
highly probable that the earliest efforts at this species 
of composition were the result of “attempts,” to 
quote the words of the writer just alluded to, “to 
communicate to a popular audience, possessed of 
little leisure and less patience, the same kind of 
amusement and excitement which the recital of the 
romances had been designed to produce among the 
nobles and higher classes of an earlier period.” 

Of ballads of this description a considerable num- 
ber has been bequeathed to us, but by far the greater 
share of them consists of tales derived from the old 
lays connected with the story of King Arthur and 
his knights of the Round Table, such as “ The Boy 
and the Mantle,” “The Horn of King Arthur,” 



MCGILL FORTNIGHTLY 




170 



“ The Greene Knight,” “ The Marriage of Sir 
Gawaine,” the “ Morte d’Arthur/’ or “King Ar- 
thur’s Death,” “ Sir Launcelot du Lac,” and many 
others, although we likewise possess transcripts of 
several other famous romances, such as “ The Legend 
of Sir Guy of Warwick,” “ Sir Gowghter, ” etc. 

We will now give some account of the ballad 
called “ King Arthur’s Death,” which we have made 
choice of, for two reasons : first, because the “ Morte 
d’Arthur ” is one of the finest poems of the series of 
which it belongs, among the old romances ; and 
secondly, because it has been so admirably repro- 
duced in our own day by the late poet laureate of 
England, and may, therefore, not be unacceptable in 
its ballad-form to the readers of Lord Tennyson. 

The ballad, which is only a fragment, and very 
imperfect at that, having received many corrections 
and additions from the restoring hand of Bishop 
Percy, opens with an account of the appearance to 
King Arthur in a dream, as he is sleeping in his 
bed, of his nephew Sir Gawaine, who had been 
killed in a fight a short time before, and who warns 
the king against immediately engaging in a battle 
then impending between him and the false Modred, 
also his nephew, but who had instigated a revolt 
against him. The description is as follows : 

Ere the first crowinge of the cocke. 

When as the kinge in his bed laye. 

He thought Sir Gawaine to him came, 

And there to him these words did saye ; 

“ Nowe, as you are mine, uncle deare, 

And as you prize your life this daye, 

O I meet not with your foe in fighte ; 

Put off the battayle iff yee maye. 

“ For Sir Launcelot is now in France, 

And with him many an hardye knighte ; 

Who will within this month be backe. 

And will assist yee in the fighte.” 

The king then summons his nobles before day- 
break, and relates what had passed, asking their 
advice as to the course he should pursue. They 
unanimously advise him to send a herald to the 
enemy, asking a “ parley faire and free.” Accordingly, 
twelve of his best knights are chosen to hold a parley 
with twelve of Modred’s knights, while the entire 
forces of both parties are commanded to be in readi- 
ness for an engagement, but are forbidden to fight 
until they perceive the signal of a drawn sword. 
Now, it so happens that while the two armies are 
thus drawn up against each other, and an amicable 
league of a month’s duration has been agreed upon 
between the combatants, one of the knights in 
King Arthur’s army is attacked by an adder, which 
fastens upon his knee and inflicts upon him a severe 
wound. The knight hastily draws his sword to 



kill the reptile, and the soldiers, mistaking the action 
for a signal to engage, immediately join battle with 
the enemy, and so bloody is the conflict that only 
three survive out of the whole number of the kings 
army. Arthur himself is one ; Larkyn, duke of 
Gloster, is another ; and Bedevere, the king’s butler, 
the third. 

And when the king beheld his knightes 
All dead and scattered on the wolde, 

The tears fast trickled down his face, — 

That manlyeface in fight soe bolde. 

“ Nowe, reste yee all, brave knights,” he sayd, 

Soe true and faithful to your trust ; 

And must yee then, ye valiant hartes. 

Be left to moulder in the dust ! 

“Most loyal have yee been to mee. 

Most true and faithful unto deathe : 

And oh ! to rayst y^e up againe. 

How freelye could I yield my breathe.” 

The king then resolves to avenge their death upon 
the authors of it, and grasping his sword and mount- 
ing his horse, in spite of the remonstrances of the 
duke, who endeavours to dissuade him from his pur- 
pose by reminding him of his dream, — his anger in 
the meantime being greatly augmented by the 
death of Bedevere, who is slain while in the act of 
assisting him to mount, — he rides forth to meet 
Modred, and slays him at the first thrust of his 
lance, but receives at the same time a mortal wound 
from the sword of his antagonist, who immediately 
expires. 

POETRY, 



HOW COMETH MAN .? 

How cometh man ? 

As light appeareth, 

As wind one heareth. 

As dew that falleth, 

As voice that calleth. 

As candle lit, or song began, — 

So cometh man ! 

How liveth man ? 

As water floweth. 

As grass that groweth. 

As a day’s flight 
From night to night. 

As rising spark, or as a span, — 

So liveth man ! • 

How dieth man ! 

As meteor droppeth. 

As clock that stoppeth. 

As flame ascendeth, 

As passion endeth, 

As bubble burst, or broken plan, 

So dieth man 1 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 




“WHAT’S IN A NAME?” 

“ Imago animi, vultus ; vitce, nomen est,” or, as 
the French say, Notre noni propre, cest nous- 
memesP 

We might well ask “ What would the annals of 
mankind have been without proper names?” His- 
tory would have been a chaos of incidents, a mass of 
confused details without interest for after ages — 
“ sine nomine homo non est. ” Since the desire for 
fame is a great incentive to man, without names 
many of the mightiest achievements would probably 
have been lost to the world. Names then, being 
absolutely necessary, would naturally not be arbi- 
trary, but would have some meaning in them, and be 
given for certain reasons. The names, therefore, as 
applied to the persons to whom they were fitst 
given, had a meaning involved in them ; but as they 
were handed down to posterity, the personal char- 
acteristics or the outside circumstances which gave 
occasion to them would naturally become changed, 
and the names would in time come to convey no 
meaning, but be employed merely to distinguish one 
individual from another. The deep significance 
contained in proper names is particularly note- 
worthy in Scriptural names, as, for instance, Abra- 
ham, “ the father of a great multitude ; ” Samuel, 
“heard of God.” Naomi, whose name signified 
“pleasant,” wished to be called Marah, for hers had 
been a bitter lot. And then we have that name 
which is above every name, — “ Thou shalt call his 
name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their 

sins.” 

To pass to the history of names, —in the earliest 
times one name was considered sufficient, as among 
the Greeks, Dionysius, Solon ; among the Romans, 
Romulus and Remus ; among the Britains, Caracta- 
cus and Caradoc. “Names were in remote times 
given to mark the good wishes of parents, that their 
children might enjoy the success and happiness such 
names seemed to promise, accoiding to the maxim, 
‘ bonuni nomen^ honiini omen. Such names Cicero 
called good names, Tacitus, happy names, for exam- 
ple : Felix, Probus, Victor, Pius, and Livy called the 
name of Atrius Umber a name of horrible portent.” 

A sir name or sire-name is the name of the father 
added to one’s own name; a surname, merely a 
name added,— a broader term than the former. In 
the addition of the father’s name we find the first 
^ppj.Qacli to the modern system of nomenclatuie, as 
Joshua the son of Nun, Melchi ben Addi, Icarus 
the son of Daedalus, Daedalus the son of Eupal- 
mus. Sometimes the adjunct expressed profession 
or country or some characteristic, as Herodotus of 
Halicarnassus, Diogenes the Cynic, Tarquinius Sup- 



171 



erbus, and later, Charlemagne, Louis le Debonnair, 
Philip the Fair. 

As society advanced, other names came into use. 
Thus the Romans had three names, praenomen, the 
individual or Christian name; the nomen, correspond- 
ing to the clan name; and the cognomen, or surname, 
given to the particular part of the tribe to which the 
individual belonged, introduced not before the 3rd 
century B.C. Secondary or honourary cognomnia 
were sometimes added, as Africanius, Augustus. 

Modern nations adopted various forms of family 
nomenclature. The Highlanders took the sire- 
name with the prefix Mac, Irish O. or Oy, Normans 
Fitz (corruption of fils, filius). In Sweden, heredi- 
tary names are said to have been unknown before 
the 14th century. The peasantry of Russia, who 
are some centuries behind the same class in other 
countries, employ suffix witz (which seems to have 
some affinity with Norman fitz), thus Peter Paulo- 
witz, for Peter the son "of Paul ; the Poles employ 
sky similarly as James Petrowsky, James the son 
of Peter. Even the gentry of Wales bore no hered- 
itary surnames until the time of Henry VIII ; indeed, 
surnames can scarcely be said to have become per- 
manently fixed, in England, before the Reformation. 
Camden says: “ About the year of our Lord 1000 

(that we may not minute out the time) surnames 
came to be taken up in France ; and in England, 
about the time of the Conquest, or else a very little 
before, under King Edward the Confessor, who was 

all Frenchified This will seeme strange to 

some Englishmen and Scotchmen, whiche like the 
Arcadians, thinke their surnames as antient as the 
moone, or at the least to reach many an age beyond 
the Conquest. But they whiche thinke it most 
strange (I speak under correction) I doubt they 
will hardly finde any surname which descended to 
posterity before that time ; neither have they seene 
(I feare) any deede or donation before the Conquest, 
but subsigned with crosses and single names without 
surnames, in this manner : -f ego Edmundus corro- 
bram, -f Sigarius ego conclusi, etc.” Before the 
Conquest, Christian names were probably varied 
enough, but the Normans introduced many Scrip- 
tural names, and Johns and Peters and James became 
so common that surnames were, in time, necessary 
for distinction. These were at first very loose and 
indefinite, e.g., William, at Byshope Gate, Agnes 
the Priest’s sister, Thomas in the Willows, Johes 
over the water. 

Pniglish surnames are remarkable for variety and 
number. Many were derived from places. It is 
said that there is not a single village in Normandy 
which has not given rise to an English surname. 
There is a common error that places borrowed their 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



172 



names from persons, instead of the contrary, at least 
in olden times. To quote from Camden again : 
“Whereas therefore these locall denominations of 
families are of no great antiquitie, I cannot yet see 
why men should thinke that their ancestors gave 
names to places, when the places bore those very 
names before any men did their surnames. Yea, 
the very terminations of the names are such as are 
only proper and applicable to places, and not to 
persons in their significations, if any will marke the 
locall terminations whiche I lately specified. Who 
would suppose Hill, Wood, Field, Ford, Ditch, Poole, 
Pond, Town or Tim and such like terminations to 
be convenient for men to bear their names, unless 
they could also dreame Hills, Woods, Fields, Ponds, 
etc., to have been metamorphosed into men by some 
supernatural transformation, and I doubt not but 
they will confesse that towns stand longer than fami- 
lies.” 

An almost inexhaustible supply of surnames has 
arisen from names of professions and trades, from 
which Smith may be selected as an interesting ex- 
ample. 

An antiquary says : “ From whence comes Smith, 
all be he knight or squire but from the smith that 
forgeth at the fire but the term itself comes from 
smitan, — to smite, and thus includes all the smiters, 
whether artificers in wood or in metal, hence the fre- 
quency of the name. Barker may be mentioned, by- 
the-way, as synonymous with Tanner. In the dial- 
ogue between King Edward IV and the Tanner of 
Tamworth, in Percy’s Reliques, we find the following 
lines : 

‘‘ ^ What craftsman art thou/ said the king, 

‘ I pray thee tell me trow 
‘ I am a barker^ sir, by my trade, 

Now tell me what art thou ?’ 

Among the numerous surnames derived from offices 
is the illustrious name of Stuart, borne for centuries 
by the regal house of Scotland and England, descend- 
ed to them from Walter, grandson of Banquo, who 
in the nth century was steward of Scotland. 

A most prolific source of family names is found in 
personal characteristics, — physical and moral. “ We 
have our Longs and our Shorts, our Blacks and our 
Whites, our Swifts and our Slowmans, our Hardies 
and our Cowards, our Giffords and our Curteises, our 
Dearloves and our Trueloves, our Wisemans and our 
Goodfellows, and even our Toogoods.” With these 
we may compare many of the names of the ancients, 
— Prudentius, Sophocles (wise by report), Polycleites 
(very renowned), Aristeides (the just). The Greeks 
were fond of moralizing on the meaning of proper 
names, thus we have one deriving Helen from evevav<; 
that destroyest ships. Shakspere has “ ‘ Old John of 
Gaunt and gaunt in being old,’ his name giving him 



a peg on which to hang his melancholy thought.” An 
ingenious nickname is seen in the case of Theramenes, 
who was called ‘0 KoOopvo<i* the Buskin, a boot which 
fitted either foot equally well, a name well suited to the 
unprincipled man who deserted his friends and joined 
whichever party was in power for the time. 

Our sources of English surnames are, however, not 
yet exhausted, although we may draw upon every 
description of locality, every dignity, office, trade, 
every peculiarity of mind or body, and every modifi- 
cation of Christian names, yet we must needs borrow 
from 

Objects terrestrial and things terrene. 

The wondrous glories of the firmament 
And all the creatures of this nether scene, 

Beasts, fishes, birds and trees, in beauteous green yclad, 
and even stones.^* 

To be continued. 



TO-NIGHT. 

(Read at the Arts Drive Dinner in the Athletic Club House, on the 
evening of Saturday, Feb. 2, 1895.) 

Once more around the board we meet 
As we have met in other years, 

Once more a city at our feet 

And mirth and music in our ears, 

Aboisterous, gay, light-hearted host. 

We revel in the upper airs ; 

Once more a mountain we have crossed 
And left between us and our cares ; 

Once more we meet, once more we feel 
What meetings such as this may mean, 

When face to face, as steel to steel 
Friend sharpens friend and minds grow keen; 

When hearts are warmed, and visions cleared. 

And strength is hoarded for the strife. 

And ties renewed and hopes upreared. 

Whereon to weave the woof of life. 

What matters that the years go by, 

Full-freighted with sublime events? 

The world moves on— we know not why ; 

New marvels come— we know not whence. 

What matters war — so war be right ? 

What matters change in politics ? 

What matters we are here to-night 
Guests of the class of ninety-six ? 

What though McGill should never boast 
A class like that of ninety-four. 

When Fraser carved the turkey roast, 

And Angus Graham had the floor,’ 

When Ireland shed his smile around’. 

And Day his larnyx tuned and sung, 

When Stewart’s mirth expression found. 

And Leslie Boyd the fragments flung ? 

What matters ? we have had our day ; 

’Tis yours to-night to act the host ; ’ 

We stop not to dispute the way. 

But thank our stars our roads have crossed 
And if in life’s dim landscape wide 

They must, and doubtless shall, divertre 
To-night they run, boys, side by side ; ’ 

To-night our ways and wishes merge. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



173 



And if prosperity should crown 
The serious efforts of our prime ; 

If virtue fair and bright renown 
Should grace us in the after time ; 

If we should rise that each might say, 

‘ ‘ I am content with what I am” ; 

If we should conquer in the fray 
And find the triumph and the palm ; 

If laurel green our brows should wreathe, 

Or we should mould a state’s decrees ; 

If godlike Wisdom should bequeath 
Her portion ; or if we should seize 
The needs of men and give the tone 
To a new age, and shed abroad 
A purer light, and should be known 
As mighty messengers of God ; 

We still with fondness should regard 
The friends, the hands that led us on, 

And say, when most with battle scarred, — 

’Twas there we crossed our Rubicon.*^ 

And if Adversity should cast 

Portentous shadows o’er our path. 

Our eyes should travel to the past, 

Our hearts renew the joys it hath ; 

And they should teach us to resign 
Ourselves to patient mild content. 

For Memory shall make them shine 
Like stars within the firmament. 

And say, — “ In that translunar clime. 

Beyond the range of day and night. 

There was a time, there was a time. 

There was a time when all was bright/’ 

Where’er we be, what lot soe’er 
May fall upon our later days. 

To-night we do not ask ; forbear 
To draw the curtain ; let our gaze 
Dwell only on this present scene, 

Where jocund Youth asserts her reign : 

Her draughts are more than Hippocrene, 

Her joys than castles built in Spain. 

We only crave a boon for all ; 

We only wish for what is best ; 

We only know, whate’er befall, 

These days shall rank among the blest; 

We only trust that to the end 

We still may cherish fair good will 
And faith and love of friend to friend. 

For the dear sake of Old McGill. 

So shall it be ; ay, it shall be, 

And men shall feel that we have sprung 
From some exalted source, and we, — 

The devious ways of life among, 

We still shall venerate the shrine. 

The fount whence manhood bubbled forth; 

And fragrant memories shall entwine 
The Island city of the North. 

W. M. MACKERACHER. 



THIRTEENTH ANNUAL DINNER OF THE 
UNDERGRADUATES OF THE FACULTY 
OF APPLIED SCIENCE. 

Yes, the weather was inclement, — no one will dis- 
pute tLt, and some might use a stronger term to de- 
scribe it. But the success of dinners seems to be 
directly proportional to the violence of storms, so no 



one complained. Each dinner that has been given 
by the Undergraduates of the Faculty of Applied 
Science since the first has been said at the time to 
be better than the one preceding it. Whether or not 

this report has always been true is not a question of 
sufficient importance to be discussed here, but of none 
could it be maintained more truthfully than of the 
last held on Friday, February 8, 1895, at the 
Queen’s hotel. The committee, composed of the fol- 
lowing gentlemen : — 

Chairman, — R. O. King. 

Vice-chairman . — Ralph B. McDunnough. 

Sec.- Treas. — S. Davidson. 

K. Moodie, S. F. Rutherford, 

R. H. Stewart, E. McLea, 

C. T. Wilkinson, W. M, MacPhail, 

had spared no trouble in preparing whatever might 
contribute to the general good, and on this occasion 
their efforts were accompanied with far greater suc- 
cess than is ordinarily the case. 

About half-past seven, young men began to crowd 
into the waiting room at the Queen’s, somewhat storm- 
beaten, it is true, but good-natured withal, and after a 
short half hour’s chat the call to arms was sounded. 
This was answered to by our eighty undergraduates 
of the Faculty of Applied Science with their guests 
and professors, who from 8.30 to 10.30 discussed the 
excellent menu prepared for them with a gusto that was 
beyond all criticism. 

But, 

The act of feeding, as you understand, 

Is but a fraction of the work in hand ; 

Its nobler half is that ethereal meat 
The papers call the intellectual treat,” 

and at the proper time, the Chairman, reminding the 
company by a few well chosen remarks that but half 
the programme had been gone through with, launched 
forth in a new direction by proposing the toast 
“ Queen and Country,” which was heartily responded 
to by all singing the national anthem. 

After regrets from those invited who were not able 
to be present had been read by the Secretary, Mr. 
W. R. Askwith, ’95, proposed “Sister Universities ; ” 
this toast was responded to by Mr. C. W. McPher- 
son, the representative of the School of Practical. 
Science of the University of Toronto, and by Mr. 
Graham Browne, also Toronto University College. 
Both these gentlemen thanked the students of McGill 
for the reception they had received, and mentioned 
the unhappy feeling at present existing between 
the professors and students of their own University 
All would have wished to see representatives from 
other Universities; but if the sorrow caused by their 
absence could in any way be lightened, the way in 
v/hich the University of Toronto was represented 
must have done much towards this end, for certainly 



174 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Mr. McPherson, Mr. Browne and Mr. Martin won 
the estimation of all McGill Science students. 

Mr. W. F. Carter, ’95, ably handled the toast “ Alma 
Mater.” Dr. Alexander Johnson, vice-principal who 
was received with much enthusiasm, made an eloquent 
reply. He spoke of the advances made in Science 
during the past few years, how railroads had developed 
and electricity made been use of in innumerable ways, 
and showed how quickly these resources of science 
had been developed. 

The “Sister Faculties,” proposed by Mr. H. M. 
Jaquays, ’96, brought forth answers from Prof. Cox, 
who represented the Donalda students, Mr. Robertson 
representing Medicine, Mr. Turner representing Arts, 
Mr. Mitchell representing Law, and Mr. Cutting re- 
presenting Veterinary Medicine. 

The tales told by Prof. Cox, of the embarrassing 
positions that professors occasionally occupy when 
lecturing to a class of lady students, were heartily en- 
joyed, as, indeed, was the whole of his excellent 
speech. 

Mr. Mitchell showed conclusively the close rela- 
tionship existing between thestudentof Law and that 
of Applied Science. He bewailed the restricted 
quarters at present occupied by the former at McGill 
and possibly showed a slight weakness in the truths 
of science by asking for better ventilation so that they 
might receive more hydrogen. 

The “ Dean and Professors ” were then at the mercy 
of Mr. G. R. MacLeod, ’97. In responding, Prof. 
Carus-Wilson mentioned the fact, that in the past, 
Canadian engineers in search of positions had been 
in the habit of leaving Canada for other countries. 
Prophesying that this would soon cease, he made a 
brief reference to the great engineering wealth of 
Canada and the bright outlook for engineers. Prof. 
Carus-Wilson also pointed out the many difficulties 
to be encountered in making a course in Applied 
Science a University course and the plans adopted at 
McGill. 

Mr. Scammel, ’95, proposed “Engineering Profes- 
sion.” Prof. Bamford in answering referred to the 
importance and brilliancy of the profession, calling at- 
tention to the slight rewards which accompanied the 
greatest achievements. 

“ Class ’95 ” was proposed by Mr. S. F. Rutherford, 
’96, in a speech that, if it picked few flaws in, touched 
all the many virtues possessed by the members of that 
class. Mr. Primrose, ’95, ably responded. 

Mr. F. A. Wilkin spared not the “ Freshmen,” but 
the cause of these gentlemen was well upheld by Mr. 
McLea. 

The last toast, “ Ladies,” Mr. Nevil N. Evans pro- 
posed in a facetious speech. 

The songs sung by Messrs, McPherson, Finnie, 



Evans, Holden and Huestis, and Mr. McDunnough’s 
banjo solo contributed much to the enjoyment of the 
evening. 

And so it ended, — or, no, it did not end then, .some 
went away, some stayed later, and a few, a very few, 
presented themselves for lectures the next morning. 

I 

PHILOSOPHICAL. 

When ignorance is bliss ’tis folly to be wise.’^ 

Placid I am, content, serene, 

I take my slab of gypsum bread. 

And chunks of oleomargarine 
Upon its tasteless side I spread. 

The egg I eat was never laid 
By any cackling, feathered hen, 

But from no man knows what ^tis made 
In Newark, by unfeathered men. 

I wash my simple breakfast down 
With fragrant chicory so cheap ; 

Or for the best black tea in town 
Dried willow leaves I calmly steep. 

But if from man’s vile arts I shrink. 

And from the pump pure water drink, 

I gulp down infusoriae 
And quaits of raw bacteriae, 

And hideous rotatorae, 

And wriggling polygastricae, 

And slimy diatomaceae. 

And hard -shelled ophryocercinae. 

And double-barrelled kolpod^. 

Non-loricated amboedae, 

And various animalculae, 

Of middle, high, and low degree, 

For Nature just beats all creation 
In multiplied adulteration. 

PHILIS. 

(Translation.) 

Philis, more greedy than tender, 

Desirous she nothing should miss. 

Demanded one day of Sylvander 
Thirty fat sheep for a kiss. 

Next day she, less avaricious, 

^ Or love’s passion growing more deep. 

Gave with a freedom delicious 
I^^sses thi ice ten for one sheep. 

Next day, how matters were altering, 

To Sylvander’s greater wonder and bliss, 

His Philis gave him without faltering 
Phiity fine sheep for a kiss. 

At last, poor Philis so tender 
^ Would have given her flock, dog and all 
kor a kiss which the rascal Sylvander 
Gave Doris for nothing at .all. 

Ota^o University Review, 



F. H. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



175 



ARTS CONVERSAZIONE. 

The Artsmen held their Second Annual Conversa- 
zione in the Molson Hall, McGill College, on Friday 
evening, February 15th. The affair was a great 
success, and proved to be one of the most pleasant 
conversaziones ever held at McGill. The Committee 
spared neither time nor trouble to make the event 
pass off with eclat, and their efforts were crowned 
with success. The decorations were profuse and 
pretty, and were tastefully and carefully arranged to 
hide the many defects of the old home of the Arts- 
men, The Molson Hall never presented a prettier 
sight than last Friday night, adorned as it was with 
hyacinths and palms, and draped with bunting and 
flags. But the most wonderful transformation had 
been worked by the Donaldas, as was to be ex- 
pected, who had converted Dr. Murray’s class-room, 
which, by the way, is one of the worst at McGill, into 
a perfect salon. Instead of wooden desks and 
chairs, the floor was carpeted with rugs, the walls and 
windows were hung with curtains and flags, and 
arm chairs and small tables gave a home-like appear- 
ance to the room. The decorations of this room 
were one of the features of the evening, and showed 
how the girls can do things when they wish to- 
Their hero and presiding genius occupied a conspi- 
cuous position in one corner of the room, where he 
was adorned with a gown and trencher. The old 
library had been neatly decorated by the several 
years; the prettiest alcove was that of the Freshmen, 
who had taken great trouble to try and outdo the 
other years, and they certainly succeeded. 

The guests were received at the top of the Molson 
Hall stairway by Dr. and Mrs. Johnson, Dr. and 
Mrs. Murray and Mrs. Moyse. Professor Moyse 
made an excellent chairman, and opened the 
evening’s proceeding about half past eight by 
calling on Mr. Fisk for a song, which was 
sung in a very excellent manner. The next 
song was given by Mrs. W. T. Morison, after which 
Gruenwald’s orchestra gave a selection. A duet 
followed, which was sung by Mr. and Mrs. A. Parker, 
who greatly pleased the audience with their render- 
ing of the piece. Mr. Heney then gave a very 
humourous reading, which was very cleverly done, 
and amused the audience. Mr. W- MacKeracher, 
B.A., also gave a very interesting original poem, and 
Miss Jarvis rendered “ lo Son Titania” very beauti- 
fully. 

This finished the first part of the programme, and 
before the next part was begun supper was an- 
nounced. It was served in the old library, and showed 
that the Committee had not only a keen apprecia- 
tion of the intellectual enjoyments of their guests, 
but that they also knew how to cater to their gustatory 



pleasures to the fullest. After supper, Gruenwald’s 
orchestra played selections during the different 
promenades, which were greatly enjoyed by all pre- 
sent. About 1 1.30 the guests began to depart, but it 
was not until an hour later that the painstaking 
Committee were at liberty to retire to their respec- 
tive homes, there to enjoy a well-earned rest. The 
thanks of the Students of Arts are due to Mrs. Pen- 
hallow, Mrs. Moyse and Mrs. Cox for the help they 
gave in decorating, as well as for the use of curtains, 
chairs, etc. Professor Moyse was also untiring in his 
efforts to make the Conversazione a success, and 
contributed not a little to the enjoyment of the event 
by exhibiting many places of interest in the Old 
World by lime light during the evening. The fol- 
lowing were the representatives from the other 
Faculties of McGill: — W. Bond, B.A, Law ’97; 
C. Vipond, Medicine ’96 ; F. Becket, Science ’95 ; 
Clarke, Comparative Medicine. 

The Committee of Management was composed of 
the following students : W. W. Craig, ’95 (Chair- 
man) ; Fred. Tooke, ’95 (Secretary) ; G. Campbell, 
’96 (Treasurer) ; Hanson and Armstrong, ’95 ; Patter- 
son and F. C. Smiley, ’96 ; Kerr and Trenholme and 
Patterson, ’97 ; Todd and Heine and E. M. Camp- 
bell ’98. 



MADRIGAL. 

Thou askest v^hy I love thee, 

In truth I cannot tell. 

For true love comes as the wild flower blooms, 

And that I know full well. 

The bright sun shines upon it, 

The breeze of heaven flows, 

The soft rains fall, and at their call 
The fair young flower blows. 

And thine eyes looked gently on me, 

Thy voice in music brake, 

Thro’ all my soul in waves to roll, 

And bade young Love awake. 

So I know not why I love thee. 

Nor would I tell, or try, 

And if thou loved me as I love thee 
I'd never ask thee why. 

Cambridge. r. MACDOUGALL. 



CLASS REPORTS. 



LEGAL BRIEFS. 

The announcement the other evening by Mr. 
Justice Wurtele, that he was leaving for Mexico in a 
day or two, and would, therefore, be obliged to hold 
over a couple of lectures until his return, was some- 
what in the nature of a surprise to the class. How- 



176 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



ever, we soon recovered our equilibrium and rose to 
the occasion. Mr. E. B. Devlin, at the close of the 
lecture, speaking in behalf of the Students, wished the 
genial Professor a pleasant and health-giving sojourn 
in the South, and a bon voyage. These sentiments 
were warmly reciprocated by the Judge. In the 
meantime, he may rest assured that he will not be 
forgotten here. Pouring over his interesting lectures 
on Real Estate amid Northern ice and snow, we 
will often conjure up his kindly visage as he 
scents the balmy gales in the far land of the Aztec. 
And in March when his exam, is about due, we 
will no doubt feel a sort of personal regret that his 
holiday has so soon come to a close. 



Mr, Bannel Sawyer, Law ’94, has been appointed 
lecturer on Commercial subjects, in the McGill Nor- 
mal School. 



We are pleased to hear that Mr. J. A. Devlin has 
been appointed valedictorian for the class of ’95. 
A good man. We have tried to extort from “Joe” 
some particulars of his life, and dates thereanent, 
meaning to use the same in a neat little biographical 
sketch for the “ Briefs,” but he steadfastly refuses to 
have fame thrust upon him. Having no data there 
fore, we can only state, that the honour conferred up- 
on him by his class is a source of great pleasure and 
gratification to all the boys generally. We may 
expect a valedictory worthy of the class and J. A. D. 
And we are going to hear it, too. 



There are some birds in the First Year. Our dash- 
ing friend H n has just returned from New York^ 

and reports all well in the metropolis. We hear that 
he has been making “ conquests ” in Gotham, but we 
advise him to keep that low. If the Professors hear 
of that they will dock him 20 per cent, in marks. 
Criminal Law will not stand that margin. 



There was an interesting and pleasant scene in 
the class-room the other night, when the Dean in- 
troduced to the students Mr. Percy C. Ryan the 
new lecturer on the History of Roman Law. The 
boys received him in right royal style, with three 
cheers and the Faculty yell. Before commencing 
the lecture, Mr. Ryan in a few appropriate remarks 
alluded to his own feelings upon the occasion, ob- 
serving that although he came to them in the capa- 
city of a lecturer he was still a student like them- 
selves, and remembered that not long ago he had 
occupied one of the seats he saw before him. He 
then turned to business, and proceeded to open up 
his subject in a very masterly manner. Mr. Ryan 
is to lecture to the First and Second Years, but so 
far there have been few empty seats. 



'A pleasing and affecting scene was enacted in our 
Faculty room the other day, showing the regard and 
affection existing between the students. One of the 
wildest of the Hibernian element is afflicted with 
long and luxuriant locks, which had accumulated to 
such an extent that he despaired of ever being able 
to get them cut off. Thereupon his particular and 
dear friend (also Hibernian) sent around a subscrip- 
tion list, generously heading it with t.vo cents. The 
others followed suit (all were trumps) and when the 
list was handed over to the youth of the luxuriant 
locks, he, with tears of emotion and gratitude in his 
eyes, forthwith sloped his lecture and hied him to 
the barber. The next day he appeared on the 
scene looking like a shorn lamb, and presented each 
one of his admirers and friends with a lock. He 
said that the barber wore out three pairs of shears 
and one hair-clipper in the operation. 



It is commonly reported that our genial graduate 
Joe Walsh has broken out into poetry, and has lately 
written quite a clever poem in the Herald en- 
titled “ That Dinner.” 



Mr. V. E. Mitchell, who represented Law at the 
Science Dinner, reports a most successful banquet. 
He did not turn up next day for lectures, so we con- 
cluded there could be no question as to its success. 
Mr. M. appears to have enjoyed himself. 



The young ly-berals in our Faculty who went 
forth to the Laurier mass meeting with “ flames ” 
in their hands, like modern Diogeneses seeking for 
honest men, report a fine procession and a great 
demonstration. 



FEATHERS FROM EAST WING. 

We would respectfully suggest that the Science 
kindergarten should be kept within the limits of the 
Science building, until they have attained such an 
age as to be capable of looking after themselves. As 
things are at present, the anxiety of the other stu- 
dents is constantly aroused by the fear that they will 
meet with some serious bodily injury— by fallincr off 
the seats in the Library chimney-corner, or tumblincr 
into the fire for instance. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



J77 



Scene — A corridor in the East Wing, looking 
over a German newspaper. 

Partial : — “ Let us look for the Births, Marriages 
and Deaths.” 

Soph. : — “ Isn’t Todt dead .!*” 

P.— “Who is Mr. Todt?” 



MEDICAL CLASS REPORTS. 

Nobody who knows them could ever imagine that 
the dignified Finals could become so enthusiastic over 
the mere matter of a class picture ; but such is the case. 
Any casual observer passing near Notman’s photo- 
graphing parlors might reasonably wonder at the 
numbers of students passing in and out ; but if it 
were not cold weather necessitating the wearing of 
long overcoats, the reason would be apparent to them 
could they but see the full dress suits, delicately ar- 
ranged collars and cravats, and carefully combed hair, 
which on these occasions bedeck the otherwise negli- 
gent student. 

The various painstaking efforts “ to take a good 
picture” are in a most amusing strain. Some, not 
altogether too handsome, complain of the fallacies of 
photography, and demand two oi more sittings. 
Others again, more than handsome, delighted at their 
own images, and not able to select from their proofs, 
ask the opinion of a friend, even if he may be the 
registrar. Another group get their photographs taken 
on the same plate, so that the composite might make 
a presentable individual image. 

In fact, it would be too funny to mention all the 
different subterfuges ; but the above, together with 
the noticeable removal of superfluous facial and cra- 
nial foliage (indicating that the individual is aware 
of the lately reduced barbers’ prices) makes an inter- 
esting account of the enthusiasm taken in this pic- 
ture. 



J. E. Robertson and Chas. Vipond, both of ’95, at- 
tended, as representatives from Medicine, the Science 
Dinner and the Arts Conversazione respectively. 
Each one reports pleasant times. 



One day last week, to our agreeable surprise, Prof, 
Mills with his usual happy manner, visited us at our 
clinics in the hospitals, and graciously explained away 
some difficult problems with his physiological tact. 
We hope that in future he will not be such a stranger. 

Much thanks are due Doctor Ross of Verdun Hos- 
pital, for the interesting clinic which he furnished the 
p'ourth Year on Friday last. 



After several lively meetings which have lately 
been held by the Third Year, and in which many 
members took a prominent part, it has finally been 
arranged to have the examinations in Pathology and 
Medical Jurisprudence in March, and that of Materia 
Medica and Therapeutics in June. 

Our thanks are due to our professors for the kindly 
way in which they have met and considered our re- 
quests, and especially to Professor Blackader for the 
considerate assistance which he gave us in our endeav- 
ours to come to a satisfactory conclusion. 



Mr. H. Fraser’s speech at the final meeting was a 
lucid and brilliant one. Laying the facts logically 
before the class, he did much to unravel the tangled 
skein. 



We are glad to see Messrs. Ross and Thompson 
once more amongst us, after a long absence from ill- 
ness. 



“ Beware the Ides of March ! ” To the Second 
Year men it is hardly necessary to repeat these words 
of warning, as present manifestations show a deter- 
mined and conscientious effort by each individual to 
successfully “cross the Rubicon.” However, we 
would warn against an over-exactment of energy, 
which often results seriously, while “ discretion is the 
better part of valour,” and it is “ better to live a dinkey 
than a dead doctor.” 



We are pleased to announce the recovery from 
severe illness of the popular student, Mr. Laing. 



From those favoured by nature with the special 
qualities (high forehead and glistening pate) to en- 
joy the luxury of a front seat in anatomy lecture, we, 
“ amongst the gods,” so to speak, would expect some 
consideration. 

Kindly allow us, if only once a week, to view the 
specimens, etc., or, at least, observe yourselves, walk 
on and give your brethren from above a chance. 



VALENTINE. 

'JO NURSE . 

In my dreams thy face Isee 
Sweet Valentine, 

Brightest visions come to me 
Sweetheart mine, 

“ Q. 4 h/^ I think of thee 
With thy chart upon thy knee 
Wiiting t. i. d. p. c.’’ 
Words divine I 



178 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



There’s a trouble in my heart 
Valentine, 

Not recorded in your chart 
Darling mine. 

If you pity suffr’mg men 
Pray then love p. r. n.” 

For when I‘m well again 
I’ll be thine. 



COMPARATIVE MEDICINE CLASS RE- 
PORTS. 

The Final man now counts his time by days. 
Paradoxically while each to him grows shorter, by 
the sun they grow the longer. Verily, “Veterinary 
art is long and time is fleeting.” 



Dr. D. McEachran attended a Reunion of the Gra- 
duates of the Montreal Veterinary College residing 
in Massachusetts, held recently in Boston. In the 
course of an address. Dr. McEachran read a letter 
of greetings from the undergraduates, which was 
enthusiastically received. The members expressed 
their interest and regard for their Alma Mater in a 
manner most gratifying to its founder. 



With most sincere sorrow we record thedeath of 
Dr. R. N. Grattan, ’94. By his generous, cheerful dis- 
position and friendly manner he won alike everyone 
with whom he came in contact. Futher comment is 
unnecessary, for in the roll call of friends graven 
deeply in many hearts, his name will ever be remem- 
bered. 



Mr. T of the P'irst Year, who recently startled 

the scientific world by the discovery of the horse’s 
clavicle, is now making inquiries upon the operation 
of rumenotomy upon the same animal. 



Have you paid your dollar ? 



J s had waited and longed for a letter with a 

“find enclosed” for six weeks. On the eve of suicide 
he was informed that it (the letter) awaited him at 
McGill. A few minutes later his tall, lithe form was 
seen bending to the breeze, as with elastic steps, keep- 
ing time to the quickened beating of his joyful heart, 
he climbed the long hill. The air seemed laden with 
ozone, visions of seats in the “gods,” tobacco galore, 
and all the luxuries of student life floated before his 



eyes. Long before he reached the letter rack the 
eagle vdsion of the true mariner discerned the longed- 
for missive. Grasping it with eager hands, tears of joy 
so filled his eyes that for a moment the writing de- 
ceived him, and then he read, “You are invited to the 
regular meeting of the Y. M. C. A.” 



H d of the First Year, who hails from the 

Northwest, was overheard asking for a “ histology 
shootin’ iron ” — an occidental phrase for a micro- 
scope, we suppose. 

ATHLETICS. 



THE McG. U. A. A. 

The Annual Meeting of the McG. U. A. A. was 
held in No. i Class, Arts Building, on Monday 
evening, February 4th. The President, Mr. Wilkin, 
occupied the chair, and called the meeting to order at 
8 o’clock. The attendance was exceedingly poor and 
lacked enthusiasm. It is a pity that such should be 
the case, as it is most discouraging to those who are 
officers as well as to others who have the welfare of 
the A. A. at heart. 

The usual order of business was changed for some 
reason, and after the minutes of the last annual meet- 
ing had been read, the elections for the ensuing year 
were proceeded with, and resulted as follows : — 

Hon. President. ~Z. J. Fleet., B.C.L. 

Hon. Treasiirer . — Prof. Carlyle., Ma. E. 

P resident. —i: . Tetreau., Med. 

Vice-President.— G. Drinkwater., Sc. 

Secretary . — K. Molson , Arts. 

Treasurer.— H. M. Killaly., B.A., Sc. 

Mr. F. Johnston then read the Secretary’s report, 
which had been carefully prepared, and gave an excel- 
lent leview of the past year, as well as touching upon 
matters of importance which will have to be dealt 
with by the present committee. Mr. Schwartz then 
read the Treasurer’s report, which showed that the 
expenditure had been a little over $300, and, conse- 
quently, only a very small balance was in hand. 
.After the adoption of the Secretary’s report and the 
Treasurers after it had been audited, Mr. Johnston 
submitted to the meeting the conditions under which 
the respective trophies of the governors and graduates 
were offered to the A. A. The Secretary read 
Professor Penhallow’s offical report as referee at 
last field-day, containing his verdict on Relay Race 
the Pole Leap and Throwing the i 61 b. hammer, as 
well as many useful suggestions for expediting events 
at future meetings. A vote of thanks was accorded 



McGTLL FORTNIGHTLY, 



•79 



Prof. Penhallow for tlie trouble which he has taken 
to forward sport at the University. Several questions 
of importance were then brought up, amongst others, 
as to the advisability of holding the “ Sports” on the 
M. A. A. A. grounds in future, and also as regards 
forming an Inter-Collegiate Union which should hold 
an annual contest. Both of these matters were left 
to the incoming committee, as also the forming of a 
new constitution which should be submitted to a spe- 
cial general meeting to be held early next autumn. 
After a vote of thanks to the retiring officers, the 
meeting adjourned. 



HOCKEY. 

On Saturday, February 2nd, the McGill Hockey 
team went to Kingston to play Queen’s in the Inter- 
Collegiate series ; and after a very stubborn fight were 
defeated by 7 games to 6. Our boys were greatly 
handicapped, owing to the small size of the Kingston 
rink, which prevented our speedy forwards from play- 
ing their fast combination game. At one part of the 
game Queen’s were not in it with McGill, but by good 
luck they managed to get even, and just towards 
“ time ” they scored the winning game. Throughout 
the match the “ Knights of the Three Crows” played 
vastly superior hockey to their much heavier oppo- 
nents, who are evidently accustomed to play much 
more off-side than they would be permitted to do in 
Montreal. Our defence was exceedingly good, espe- 
cially Schwartz at cover point, who played an excel- 
lent game throughout the match. The match was 
one of the fastest seen in Kingston, and it was by the 
hardest kind of luck that Old McGill was beaten, as 
even the Queen’s men acknowledge that we certainly 
should have had the match. Our forwards were 
particularly brilliant, and played great hockey. The 
Queen’s Club entertained their visitors at supper after 
the match, and proved themselves to be excellent 
hosts. 

The following was the McGill team : 

Goal, H.Trenholme; Points, F. Bickerdike ; Cover 
Point, G. Schwartz ; Forwards, S. Davidson (Captain), 
E. McLea, A. Mussen and G. Drinkwater. Mr, C. 
Davidson accompanied the team, as “ business mana- 
ger ” as well as “ spare man.” 



At a recent meeting of the Executive Committee 
of the Hockey Club, Mr. Campbell Howard was 
appointed captain of the second team. 



We are surprised that there have not so far been 
any Faculty matches, which the College rink gives an 



opportunity not formerly afforded for having these 
very interesting events. The Freshmen years of the 
different Faculties do not seem anxious to test their 
hockey ability, which is surprising, considering the 
number of excellent hockey players among the 
Freshmen. 



At present the Faculty championship is held by 
Science and the hVeshmen championship by Arts. 



SOCIETIES. 



Y.W.C.A. 

The weekly meeting was held February 6th. Miss 
Gault, of the class ’97, directed our thoughts to Purity. 
The subject as presented showed careful preparation 
and clear exposition of the subject. The attendance 
was large. 

The special feature of the meeting of February 13th 
was the practical way in which Miss Warren dealt 
with the subject of True Wisdom. We regret to say 
that the meeting was not so largely attended. 



DELTA SIGMA. 

A very pleasant meeting was that of February 7th, 
the essays by Miss Nicholls and Miss Hurst being 
most interesting papers on “ Indian Mythology ” and 
“ Living English Poets.” Diverse as were these sub- 
jects, their conjunction made a suggestive and curious 
study, showing poetry in two aspects, in the wild, 
weird imaginings of the savage, as well as in the 
beautiful fancies of highly cultivated minds. 

Following the essays came a short and animated 
debate on the “ Desirability of Bicycle Riding as an 
exercise for ladies.” Though the affirmative was up- 
held with warm arguments, the vote of approval was 
with the negative, chiefly through the efforts of the 
new member who promises to become a light for 
future occasions. 

Before the meeting adjourned there was some ear- 
nest discussion as to ways and means of bringing up 
the attendance in future to a point more representa- 
tive of the Donalda numbers. Schemes are now go- 
ing forward which are to work a revolution before 
the close of the session. 

MONTREAL VETERINARY MEDICAL 
ASSOCIATION. 

The regular meeting of the Association was held in 



i8o 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



the Lecture Room of the Faculty, on February 7, 
1895, the president, Dr. Adami, occupying the chair. 

Mr. E. H. Lehnert for the Experimental Commit- 
tee reported upon the administration of Morph. 
Sulph. as an aid to the production of anjesthesia in 
the horse. Mr. Inglis read a paper on the subject of 
Anthiax, giving a full account of this troublesome 
continental disease. Dr. Baker and Dr. Adami 
described the outbreaks which have at rare times oc- 
curred in Canada. 

Mr. E. C. Thurston followed with a paper on Modes 
of Restraint and Anaesthesia,— a practical subject, 
well treated, and worthy of more discussion than the 
hour permitted. 



McG. U.A.A. 

The annual meeting of the McG. U.A.A. was held 
on Monday evening, February 4th, in the Arts build- 
ing. It is to be regretted that out of a University 
with over 1,000 students there should only be an at- 
tendance of less than* 30 at the annual meeting. It 
must also be mentioned that out of an executive com- 
mittee of eighteen not one half of that number were 
there. Something certainly must be wrong regard- 
ing Athletics at McGill, or do the undergraduates not 
take enough interest in them to attend an annual 
meeting ? After the reports of the Hon. Secretary 
and Treasurer were read, the election of officers for 
the ensuing year took place, and are as follows 

Hon. President. — C. J. Fleet. 

Hon. Treasurer. — Prof. W. A. Carlyle. 

Ptesident.—T. Tetreau, B.A., Med. ’96. 

Vtee-Pres. — Graham Drinkwater, Sc. ’97. 

Hon. Sec. — K. Molson, Arts ’96. 

Treasurer.— \{. Killaly, B.A., Sc. ’96. 

The Report of the referee. Prof Penhallow, of last 
Field Day was read, and a vote of thanks passed for 
his fair rulings and for his suggestions regarding the 
management of future Field Days. 

A resolution was passed, that the incoming com- 
mittee draw up a new constitution and lay the same 
before a general meeting of the Athletic Association 
at an early date next fall. 

With regard to the payment of the sum for the 
damage to seats, etc., in the Molsons Hall at the last 
distribution of prizes, a resolution was passed that the 
retiring President, Secretary and Treasurer draw up 
a scheme to pay off the debt, so that each Faculty 
pays in proportion to the number of its students. 

In accordance with the last resolution, the Facul- 
ties are assessed as follows : — 

Medicine $11.40; Science $5.70; Arts $4.30; 
Law $1.50; Comp. Medicine $1.50. 

A vote of thanks was next passed, thanking the 



retiring officers for the way they had managed the 
business of the Association. 

FRANCIS JOHNSTON, 

Hon. Secretary. 



EXCHANGES. 



We beg to remind our College contemporaries that 
exchanges should he sent to Editor-in-ehief., McGiLL 
Fortnightly, care McGill University Library. 

Among our exchanges for this issue, we welcome 
our contemporary. The Presbyterian College Jouriial. 
Dr. MacVicar’s able answer to a recent article in the 
Cosmopolitan, entitled “The Young Man and the 
Church, ’ deals with the subject in his usual logical 
manner, and at the close of its perusal, the reader is 
convinced of the complete overthrow of the argu- 
ments advanced by the original writer. Mr. Mac- 
Dougall contributes a series of pleasing sonnets, while 
apart from matter strictly pertaining to the church is 
a lengthy analysis of the Idylls of the King, contain- 
ing among other interesting points some explanation 
of the double meaning claimed for these poems by 
Tennyson’s friends. 



Knox College Monthly opens with the first part of 
an interesting account of Diseases of the Bible, writ- 
ten by a well-known physician. It contains also an 
eloquent condemnation of the Higher Criticism, as 
well as much other matter of a class particularly 
interesting to theological workers. 

In St. Johns College Magazine, Canada is extolled 
as a “ Country of Young Men and for young men. 

The account of Canadian writers in the current 
number of The Canadian Magazine proves that our 
country furnishes a goodly number in the ranks of 
literature, and it is pleasing to know that Montreal 
contiibutes her fair share. The poem by Seranus is 
written in her usual spirited style, but the subject is 
hackneyed and rather uninteresting. 

The objects of the Canada Club, referred toby The 
Manitoba ^ College Journal, are “ to promote the study 
of Canadian literature ; to develop a national spirit 
among the students of the College ; and to form the 
nucleus of a Canadian library,’’ objects well worth 
consideration by every college on Canadian soil. 



^ ^0,1 Ln^umriy orignt a 

interesting, especially those dealing with the prepa 

tion for college training, and the idea of having 
special transportation rate for students’ books. 

A charming translation of a pleasantly conceu 
French story is to be found, with other good readi 
matter in Kings College Record, while the Glaso 
University Magazine and The Bowdoin Orient are 
to their usual standards. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



i8i 



COLLEGE ITEMS. 

Vassar has challenged Bryn Mawr to a joint 
debate. 



Columbia College issues eighteen different publi- 
cations. 

There are 431,650 volumes in the 32 libraries at 
Harvard. 

Cornell has added the Russian language to the 
curriculum. 

The reported receipts from the Yale-Princeton 
game were $37,000. 

During the past year Yale has received by gifts 
nearly $300,000. 



One-fourth the number of students at the Univer- 
sity of Berlin are Americans. 



One hour of debating each week is a required 
course for Amherst Seniors. 



Over 60 Harvard students are engaged in the 
editing of the five Harvard papers. 



The Faculty at Amherst have decided that there 
shall be no more Freshman Athletic teams. 



The University of Edinburgh has purchased a new 
athletic field. The amount paid was £g,ooo. 



The Ohio Wesleyan University has lately 
received a donation of $50,100 for a new library 
building. 



President Low, of Columbia College, finds time to 
teach a Bible-class in St. George’s every Sunday 
afternoon. 



Seven Yale graduates were elected to the House of 
Representatives at the last election. 



The abolishing of foot-ball at Northwestern Uni- 
versity is being considered by a committee of the 
university trustees. 



At St. John’s College the lectures are given in 
Latin, and even the examinations are carried on in 
that language. 

The Psychological Laboratory at Yale has insti- 
tuted a work shop for the manufacture of psycho- 
ogical instruments. 

Lafayette College began its new year with a regis- 
tration of 105 new students, a number slightly in 
excess of last year. 

The University of Virginia has begun another 
prosperous year. The Law department is unusually 
large, having 140 students. 



The class of ’97 of Tufts College has voted to 
publish a history of that institution next year, in place 
of the regular class annual. 



Cornell will train tv»?o crews this year, one light 
eight to row in the Henley regatta in England, and 
a heavy one to meet Pennsylvania. 



A press club has been organized at Harvard. It 
is composed of all the students connected in any way 
with college or outside papers. 



About twenty-five men are in training for a lacrosse 
team at Harvard. No games will be arranged until 
it is known whether the team will be a success. 



A QUERY. 

What is college spirit 
She blushingly drew near — 
“ I know that students like it, 
Now is it wine or beer^? ” 



i 82 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



Oxford University, the largest in the world, em- 
braces twenty-one Colleges and five Halls. It has 
an income of $6,000,000 and has 12,000 students. 



The enrolment of the University of Chicago is 
now 1,100, and it is expected that it will reach l,6oo 
before the close of the present year. This will be 
twice as many as were enrolled last year. 



Principal Grant, at Queen’s Convocation, said : 
“ Anyone would be within the mark if he said that 
half the students in Canadian colleges would have 
been better had they stayed at least a year longer in 
the high schools.” 

The very nearly complete returns of registration 
in all departments of Yale College show that there 
are about 2,387 students this year. As compared 
with previous years, this indicates an advance on last 
year of 170, of 400 or more over 1892, and of more 
than 700 over 1890. 



Academy of Husic 

HENRY THOMAS, 

Lessee and Manager. 



Week cominenciiig February 18 th. 



“ In Old Kentucky ’’ 

WRITTEN BY 

o. T. JDAJZrETS:. 



“True Hearts are more than Coronets 
and Simple Faith than Norman Blood.” 



The income and expenditure of Harvard College 
for a year is nearly double that of the Province of 
New Brunswick. More than lOO professors and 
instructors have been added to the number of her 
teaching staff in the last six years. It has been 
estimated that it would take a student 70 years to 
go through all the courses in the different schools of 
the University. 

MOTHER GOOSE UP TO DATE. 

Sing a song of touch-downs. 

A pig-skin full of air ; 

Two and twenty sluggers 
With long and matted hair. 

When the game was opened, 

The sluggers ’gan to fight. 

Wasn’t that, for tender maids, 

An edifying sight ? —Brunonian, 



Next Attraction ! 



Beginning Monday, February 25 



The DELLA FOX 

Comic Op<?ra CompanvJ 

•. .. IN .. .. 

“The Little Trooper" 



The class in modern Greek at Cornell University 
is issuing a Greek newspaper for reading exercises. 
The journal is known as the Atlantis, and has been 
published in New York City for the last six months. 
It appeals to a threefold constituency for support, — 
the Greeks in America who desire a journal in their 
own language ; Americans who wish to read modern 
Greek for general information ; and Greeks at home 
without reliable information concerning the United 
States . — Cornell Sun. 



[The Casino Success] 

Comic Opera in three acts. 



All the original costumes and 
used at the Casino. 



scenery as 



fox m role of CLAIRE FTE. 



POPULAR PRIOES, 



