$ 




o 

7 






4 - 




1 } 



o 




Vol. XI. 



No. 4. 





1837-88 






Printed by the Burland Lith. Co., Montreal. 









UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, Guerin & Greenshields, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, &c,, 

Chambers: Exchange Bank Building, 

1728 NOTRE DAME STREET, - - MONTREAL. 

J, N. Greenshields. Edmond Guerin. R. A. E* Greenshields. 

" ROBERTSON, FLEET & FALCONER, 

ADVOCATES, 

157 ST. J-Jl : MIES STREET, 
MONTREAL. 



Atwater & Mackie, 

Aflvocates, Barristers, Commissioners, k, 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 St. James St., Montreal. 

MACN1ASTER, HUTCHINSON, WEIR l NlcLENNAN, 

ADVOCATES, 

BARRISTERS, SOLICITORS, &c., 
175 St. James St., Montreal, 



DONALD MACMASTER, Q.C. 
M. HUTCHINSON, B.CL. 



R. 8. WEIR, B.C.L. 

F. S. MCLENNAN, B.C.L. 



CHAPLEAU, HALL, NICOLLS & BROWN, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Commissioners, &c., 

147 St. James St., Montreal. 



Hon. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. 
JOHN S. HALL, Jr. 



ARMINE D. NICOLLS. 
ALBERT. J BROWN. 



CRUICKSHANK & ELLIOT, 
Advocates, Barristers, etc., 

90 ST. JAMES STREET, CITY. 

McCIBBON & MAJOR, 

^.d.T7-ocates, Barristers, etc., 

STANDARD BUILDING, 

157 St. James Street. 

A. PERIARD, 

Law Bookseller, Publisher, Importer & Legal Stationer, 

23 ST. JAMES ST., 

(NEAR THE COURT-HOUSE,) 

MONTREAL. 



ilsilic Materials, Baata Bit., 

MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 

W. A. DYER & CO., 
Phanmitual & Diipsim Cbtmisls, 

14 & 16 Phillips Square. Cor St. Catherine St. 

MONTREAL. 

Bandages, Roller, Muslin, 

Bandages, Cotton, 

Bandages. Absorbent, 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze, 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, 'Assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent, 

Cotton Wool, Borated, 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated, 

Cotton Wool, Sublimated. 

Drainage Tubes, Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent, 

Gauze, Borated, 

Gauze, Carbolized, 

Gauze, Eucalyptol, 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze, Naphthalin, 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, ’.Inhalers, Coghill ; Inhalers, Celluloid, 

Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached, 

Jute, Absorbent, 

Jute, Carbolized, 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated ; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels ; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes ; 
Sponges, Antiseptic* Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain; Sponges, 
Gamgee’s Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies'. 

HEADQUARTERS 

-FOR— 

Sclool aid College Text Books ! 

DRYSDALE’S 

232 ST. CT-A-HVUIES ST. 



MEDICAL WORKS, BOOKS USED IJV ART COURSE , 
SCIEJYCE TEXT BOOKS , 

THE VARIOUS THEOLOGICAL, ROOKS . 

Fall Assortment in Stock and Supplied at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books. See., See., 

BEST VALUE I N TOWN s . ■ 



Stylographic Pens, Anti-Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty. 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

232 St. James Street, 

-A-XjSO 

Branch Store 1423 St. Catherine St. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Vol. xi.] McGill college, Montreal, December 9th, 1887. [No. 4. 




BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

Jeffrey H. Burlanb, B. Ap. Sc., F.C.S., President. 
C. W. Hoare, Med. ’88, Vice-President. 

J. F. Mackie, B.A., B.C.L., Scc.-Treas. 

A. Drummond, Science ’88. 

W. Dixon, B.A. 

C. F. Martin, Arts ’88. 

J. A. Elliott, Arts ’90. 



EDITORS. 

Raleigh J. Elliot, B.C.L., Editor-in-Chief. 

C. L. Wheeler, B.A., Med. ’89. 

J. A. MacPhail, Arts ’88. 

A. P. Solandt, B.A. 

H. E. C. Mason, Arts ’88. 

W. J. Delaney, Med. ’89. 

R. H. Clerk, B.A., Law ’89. 

M. W. Hopkins, Science ’88. 

Blanche B. Evans, Corresponding Editor for Ladies’ Dept. 

The University Gazette will be published fortnightly dining 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which 
rule no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

All communications may be addressed to the Editors, P. 0. 
Box 1290. 

We do not hold ourselves responsible for the opinions expressed 
by correspondents. 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE. 

Editorials • 39-40 

Poetry 40-48 

Contributions 40-45 

McGill News 46 

Societies 46-48 

Sporting 48 

Exchanges 48 

Personals 48 

Between the Lectures .... - 48-49 

Correspondence 49-50 



Editorials. 



It has frequently been observed that once a man 
receives his ardently longed for degree, and passes out 
from College to take bis place in the world, that the 
interest and affection hitherto evinced for his Alma 
Mater vanishes, nor does he even appear to value the 
friendships of college days. In several colleges in 
the neighbouring Republic, schemes have been adopted 



by which graduates may hear periodically from each 
member of their class, where they are residing, what 
pursuits they are engaged in, and other matters which 
would be likely to interest old college friends. To 
effect this, a President, Vice-President, and Convener 
are usually appointed, and chosen by the graduating 
class from their number, the duty of the latter being 
to receive an annual or semi-annual newsy letter from 
each man, and then to forward to each member a 
report, prepared from the news thus obtained. In 
this way, the entire class is kept well posted as to the 
whereabouts and doings of its individual members. In 
addition to this, a resolution is generally passed 
before parting, to the effect that there be a re-union 
of the entire class at a certain stated period, — such 
period usually to be after the lapse of ten years — at 
which meeting the President whom they then elect 
becomes chairman, and should he be deceased, the 
Vice-President to take his place. Whether such 
schemes prove successful across the border we are not 
prepared to say, but as far as McGill is concerned, we 
can pronounce with certainty that they are a decided 
failure, for we are aware that in at least one gradua- 
ting class in Arts, the system was proposed, and carried 
almost unanimously, and the preliminary and easiest 
part of the business was executed, namely the appoint- 
ing of the necessary officers, the decision as to the 
nature of these yearly reports, and also as to the place 
of re-union in ten years from that date. As far as we 
can learn, the matter has dropped here, for out of the 
class of twenty-seven members, only some five or six 
have fulfilled their agreement, and consequently, the 
Convener has been unable to make his report. We 
regret that such should be the case, and would recom- 
mend future classes, should they deem it advisable to 
adopt this system, that they do not merely appoint 
their officers, and make good resolutions, but that 
they carry such good resolutions into effect, and thus 
keep alive the friendships and good feeling which 
have begun at old McGill. 



UNIVERSITY LECTURE. 

Sir William Dawson evidently meant every word 
he said, as he protested against the unjust restrictions 
under which the Protestant educational institutions 
of the Province labour. Reduced to brief form, his 
complaints were as follows : — The rights and privi- 



40 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1887. 



leges of the Protestant educational institutions were 
not to be interfered with by Confederation, but were 
to remain the same as before 1 867. Although the Legis- 
lature has not curtailed them directly, yet it has 
done so indirectly, by giving to Boards — the members 
of which are for the most part Roman Catholics — 
authority to prescribe the professional course of study 
necessary to entrance into their ranks, and the course 
of general study leading up to the study of the pro- 
fessions. In this way the Roman Catholics have 
usurped the control as to the matter of the education 
of Protestants for the learned professions. This con- 
dition of affairs is rendered more intolerable by the 
fact that subjects, upon which Protestants place little 
value, however important they may appear to Roman 
Catholics, are foisted upon Protestant students. 

Sir William complained that a McGill B. A. de- 
gree was not considered a sufficient guarantee of a 
liberal education for a man entering on the study of 
Law, but that an examination prescribed by the pro- 
fession, the majority of whose members are Roman 
Catholics, had to be passed. “ In many parts of the 
world,” Sir William remarked, “the possession of 
6uch a degree is required as a necessary preliminary 
qualification, and everywhere, except in the Province 
of Quebec, it is acknowledged to be sufficient.” 

In the same way he spoke of the restrictions placed 
upon students of other professions, and protested 
strongly against the usurpation of the rights of the 
Protestant minority in the Province in regard to edu- 
cational matters. He appealed to the public, the 
alumni, the students, to rally round those who are 
fighting on behalf of Protestant education, and, in 
conclusion, remarked : “ I have no fear, however, for 
the future. I believe that the good work which has 
been done will live, and that those who endeavour to 
thwart it might as well set themselves in opposition 
to the great forces of nature itself. They may en- 
deavour to dam up our great river and to prevent it 
from pursuing its course to the sea, and from carrying 
to us on its bosom the wealth of the world, but the 
stream will overflow and undermine their frail bar- 
riers, and the temporary restraint will end in an over- 
flowing flood.” 

We sincerely endorse the position taken by Sir 
William Dawson, and shall do all in our power to 
further the objects of Protestant education. 

Did this infringment of its rights continue and 
grow, as it certainly will do, unless strong action bo 
taken, it would be disastrous to professional life in 
the Province. When our educational institutions 
become incompetent, and fail adequately to perform 
their functions, it will be time for the majority to step 



in and interfere. But so long as they are efficient, 
we claim the right of Protestants to govern them and 
prescribe their curricla. 

Poetry. 



TO A BUTTERFLY. 

Butterfly, flitting from flower to ftower, 

Wandering sunbeam escaped from the sky— 

Where do you hide, little one, from the shower . 

Where do you go when the winter draws nigh ? 

What are you made for, and what do you do? 

Nothing, methinks, only idle through life. 

Now in the clover, now high in the blue, 

Gay king of joy with a sunny, sweet wife. 

What funny thoughts you must have in your mind ! 

What wondrous sights must your bright eyes behold ; 
What nectar draughts in the rose you must find, 

Restless, wee bit of all-animate gold. 

You never hoped, and found hope was in vain, 

Tears never stood in your bright, beady eyes, 

You flit through life, unlike me, without pain, 

You drink the sweet, and the bitter despise. 

Change, will you change lives with me, little one? 

Yours may be brief, yet I’d rather by far 
Live but a day, than survive my life's sun 
Into a night never pierced by a star. 

Montreal. Arthur Weir. 



dontributions. 

A COUNTRY BOY. 
[Written for the University Gazette.] 
By Nihil V. Erius. 



CHAPTER III. 



“ The wanderer's heart, at Christinas time, 
Tun. s fondly homeward ; and he strays. 
With joyous feet, from every clime, 

To where he dwelt in boyhood’s days.” 



Christmastide, with its liolly and mistletoe, ming- 
ling their Druidical rites with those of Christianity, 
had come, and Peter’s heart turned fondly homeward, 
as all hearts do at this glad time. For some days he 
stuck to bis resolution to remain in town during vaca- 
tion, and study, but love proved too strong for him, 
and two days before Christmas lie boarded the cars 
for Prankville without notifying his people of his in- 
tention, in order to surprise them. He took with 
him a little present for Lizzie, among others for his 
own family, and with a delicacy that must have been 
inherited from his ancestors, he also took her a large 
box of roses, which he was more anxious to keep 
warm during the journey than to keep the cold from 
himself. There would be one girl, he said to himself, 
who would wear flowers in the little church on 
Christmas morning. 

Fast as went the train, still faster flew his thoughts. 
He found himself standing in fancy at Lizzie’s elbow, 
while she prepared the mince-meat — or, rather, the 



1887.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



41 



pies — for the mince-meat had been standing in its 
crude state in the larder for weeks hack, its spices and 
raisins and meats commingling into one superb flavor 
fit for the gods, if they work like Vulcan and have 
the digestive powers of the ostrich. Still giving loose 
run to his fancies, he helped her tie \ip the huge 
plum-pudding, that, like the mince-meat, had been 
compounded long before. He was just dropping it 
into the pot when the conductor came round, and it 
is not surprising to us, who know his thoughts, that 
in answer to the query whither he was going, he 
replied “ Puddingville.” 

The conductor laughed. 

“ Most people are going to that place at this sea- 
son,” he said; “but where is your particular Pud- 
dingville situated 1 ” 

Peter blushed almost as violently as though the 
conductor had guessed and told his thoughts, and 
quickly corrected his mistake. 

“Why don’t you say Elizabethtown 1 ?” asked a 
rough voice in his ear. 

“ There is no such place on this line,” said the con- 
ductor, stolidly, as he punched Peter’s ticket. 

Feeling as though he would like to treat the first 
speaker as the conductor had treated his ticket, Peter 
turned and stared the man in the face. 

“ What ! have you forgotten your old friends al- 
ready ? ” said the man, extending a hairy, sun-burned 
hand over the back of the car seat to Peter ; “ then 
it’s a poor chance them as is dearer to you will stand 
in a year or two.” 

“ IIow do you do, Bolton ! ” said Peter, coldly, 
affecting not to notice the proffered hand. “ Are all 
the folks well? ” 

“ Yes,” was the reply. “ Well enough, but one, 
who might be doing better than cry her eyes out over 
a fellow as is never satisfied with his place. But 
she’ll get over it, I don’t doubt. Leastways she will, 
if Jim Fowler can help her.” 

Peter felt a twinge of remorse, and, ignoring Bol- 
ton’s reference to Fowler, asked — 

“ Has she really been unhappy, Bolton ? ” 

“ Ay, she has ; the bigger fool, she.” 

“ I am sorry,” broke in Peter ; “ I would not have 

made her unhappy for” , and here he stopped. 

Pained as he was, he could not say so, for no man can 
reveal the depth of his love to another. He remained 
silent, wrapped in regretful thoughts. 

Bolton was Lizzie’s brother, and Fowler was a 
young farmer of the neighborhood, noted for all the 
rascality and brutality that a farmer can indulge in, 
but particularly for his fondness for the “ Eagle’s 
Nest,” the only tavern in Prankville, or for miles 
around. Bolton himself was not far behind his 
friend, if, indeed, he did not fall behind him in these 
particulars merely to excel him in others equally bad. 
That Bolton and Lizzie were brother and sister one 
could scarcely believe. Mr. Tilton, in youth, had 
been as wild as any of the young men of the back 
country, and on fair day had often thrashed his man. 
But he was not naturally vicious. The sin of the 
race must go farther back than Mr. Tilton to find the 
explanation of his son’s temperament. Of Lizzie and 
Bolton, it might be said with Tennyson — 



“ She to him was nothing akin ; 

Some peculiar mystical grace 

Made her only the child of her mother, 

And heaped the whole inherited sin 
On that huge scape-goat of the race — 

All, all upou the brother.” 

At least that was what Peter thought, though he 
endeavored not to say it, for a long time ; nor did he 
say it until it was forced from him by Bolton’s con- 
duct. In the years gone by — not very many of them, 
for Peter was only nineteen and Bolton twenty-four 
— the two young men had been friends, cronies 
almost. But Bolton began to drift down the current, 
and an almost imperceptible breach took place be- 
tween the two, which widened slowly as Bolton saw 
Peter’s love for Lizzie. Big brothers, sometimes like 
nothing better than to exert their authority in warn- 
ing off ardent lovers, no matter how eligible they may 
be. No one is good enough for their sisters, whom, 
however, they continue to treat privately, with the 
old accustomed scorn, as girls. These brothers usually 
make the important discovery that there is a lover at 
the time when opposition is too late, and their disap- 
probation is most keenly felt. At least this was the 
case with Peter, Lizzie and Bolton. The last named 
discovered how the land lay about a month or two 
after the old folk had come to the conclusion that if 
the girl wanted Peter she might have him, though he 
was not quite good enough for her. Jim Fowler had 
tried to win Lizzie’s affections, but was put to an in- 
glorious flight. It was he who put it into Bolton’s 
head that Peter was in love with Lizzie. Bolton got 
furious at once, largely because he had heard the 
fact from Fowler. Down in the depths of his not 
over acute mind lurked the idea that it was weakness 
for a girl to fall in love; and, therefore, coupling this 
idea with the fact that his sister’s lover was Peter, he 
had as pretty a pair of steeds to drive him to despera- 
tion and absurdity as a man could wish for. 

He was foiled in every quarter. 

Peter loyally confessed his love and his unworthi- 
ness, but stoutly held that he was as good as Lizzie 
could possibly get, be he nobleman or commoner, or, 
as we say in Canada, rich or poor. 

Lizzie sought a woman’s refuge — silence and tears 
— and her citadel remained untaken, while her parents 
greeted their son with the startling remark that they 
could get along very well without his interference, 
and hoped he would come to them in future with his 
tales, and leave the young people alone. 

It is not to be wondered at, therefore, that there 
was a coolness between Bolton and Peter. What sur- 
prised Peter and made him suspicious, was that Bol- 
ton should speak to him at all. 

His meeting with Bolton changed Peter’s plans a 
little. He would arrive at Prankville at about eight 
o’clock, and he had intended going home, and visiting 
Lizzie next morning. But now that her brother knew 
of his coming, he knew that Lizzie would soon know 
also, and thus be deprived of the pleasant surprise he 
meant to give her. So he determined to seek Lizzie 
first before going home at all. 

Prankville was only a flag station in those days, 
and few people ever came to the station. There was 



42 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1887. 



no one there when Peter got off, and he and Bolton 
trudged along, almost silently, through the snow to 
Lizzie’s home. 

“ I doubt if she’ll be glad to see you, Peter,” said 
Bolton. “ Jim Fowler was to be there to-night. It’s 
a beautiful night for a drive or a walk.” 

Peter did not deign to take notice of the insinua- 
tions of Lizzie’s unfaithfulness. He knew her too 
well. He Avould have been surprised to see her with 
Fowler, but never suspicious, for he well knew coun- 
try freedom, and would not have blamed her for re- 
ceiving other visitors. 

Bolton, seeing he could not provoke Peter, relapsed 
into silence, and thus they walked until they arrived 
at the old farm house. 

Leading the way around to the kitchen entrance — 
for, like many country farmers, the Tiltons seldom 
used their front door — Bolton pushed open the door 
and entered, closely followed by Peter. 

The room was almost full, and a substantial meal 
was spread upon the table at which the party was 
seated. There was the same air of neatness in the 
room that had endeared it to Peter’s eye, but, at the 
same time, his short stay in the city had disillusion- 
ized him to a great extent, and he could not but think 
of the cosy dining-room of the James’, furnished in 
oak. 

But this was only a surface thought, a ripple on 
the wave of true sentiment that welled up within his 
heart and made him glance round for Lizzie. 

Let, quick as he had been, Lizzie had been quicker, 
and, with a little cry, sprang from her mother’s side 
to throw herself into his arms. 

’* She was all which pure ignorance allows, 

And flew to her young mate like a young bird,” 

as Byron says of Haidee. 

Peter kissed her gently, and there were two brows, 
and only two, that bore a frown at that moment. 
These were the brows of Bolton and Jim Fowler. 

No, there was one other, that of Mr. Forbes • but 
the frown cleared away so rapidly that one could 
hardly be certain that it had existed. The majority 
took the incident as a matter of course, and when it 
was oyer, greeted Peter and Bolton warmly. Old 
LIr. Tilton made a place for Peter at his side, and 
Bolton found one by Fowler, and a muttered conver- 
sation passed between the two. 

“Well, lad, you haven’t forgotten us yet?” said 
•“I r * Tilton, taking his pipe from his mouth in order 
to speak to Peter. “ How are the folk at home? 
Downright glad to see ye they must ha’ been.” 

h a ven 1 seen them yet,” said Peter, confusedly : 

1 met Bolton on the cars, and came here with him 
on my way home.” 

“ A lon o wa y round, Peter,” said Mr. Forbes, slyly • 
but your father will be here shortly, and will be 
glad to see you.” 

It was but natural for the guests to be interested in 
Peters experience of city life, and he found himself 
not entirely against his will, the centre of conversa- 
tion for quite a time, and if his relations seemed more 
interesting than we could have thought, it must be 
remembered that he had come to the city in a condi- 



tion to realize all its strangeness, and that his elo- 
quence lost nothing through the presence of his sweet- 
heart. Indeed, the very slight changes that had 
taken place in him, by reason of his short stay in the 
city, were exaggerated now almost unconsciously, and 
were apparent to all. There was a self-confidence in 
his manner that he had not always had, and an aping 
of the airs of his city friends that made him very 
attractive to his audience, and especially to Lizzie. 

But no man can monopolize the conversation long 
at Christmas time. The turn of the tide began at the 
distant parts of the room, in remarks to one another 
arising from Peter’s words, and slowly surged up to- 
wards Peter, until at last the conversation was once 
more general. Peter himself aided in furthering this 
by making enquiries about what had happened during 
his absence. 

The company among which Peter found himself 
was typical of the country around. 

The schoolmaster, grave and thoughtful, yet with 
an occasional flicker of mirth on his face, sat smoking, 
withdrawn from the table, his violin in its case at his 
feet, for there was to be music. 

Mr. Tilton was also smoking, and at his side sat a 
tall, dark, nervous-looking man, whose brilliant eyes 
shone often with the light of dreams. Though so 
unlike Mr. Tilton in physique and disposition, there 
was still a strong resemblance between them. They 
were brothers, but Hal Tilton had long left the neigh- 
bourhood to make his way in life among men. 
Whether he had, or had not, done so, he did not tell 
his brother, to whom he had come, partly through 
affection and partly to obtain a considerable loan, or, 
rather, to advise his brother to invest two thousand 
dollars in a new company that was about to work 
with an invention of Hal’s. Peter sat on the other 
side of Mr. Tilton, or had done so up to a few 
moments before our description was begun. He now 
sat next to Lizzie and her mother by the stove, and 
protected by that unwieldy object from the gaze of 
the gathering, the young people carried on a little 
conversation of their own, interspersed with little 
struggles over a piece of knitting that Lizzie had, and 
of which Peter declared himself jealous. 

A little distance from Peter’s old place sat a shock- 
headed fellow with unkempt beard and gray flannel 
shirt, open at the throat. His coat was on the wall 
behind him. His trowsers were of very coarse stuff, 
and tucked into a pair of long boots, shiny with 
grease. There was a constant grin upon his face, 
that otherwise bore no expression at all, and at the 
least provocation his loud laugh would ring through 
the house. 

Among the others was a hunter, named Tom, better 
known as “ Fighting Tom,” whose grizzled beard and 
deep-lined face indicated many a year of exposure to 
the elements. His long gun was standing in the 
corner, for he never travelled without it, and curled 
up beside it lay a very handsome setter dog. A 
farmer or two, in addition to Mr. Tilton, completed 
the quota of guests. 

“ So you want to know what has happened since 
you left, Peter ? ” said Mr. Tilton, turning to the 
empty chair at his side. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



43 



1887.] 



“ Hello, broke cover, eh ! ” he said, as his glance 
roamed round the room. 

“ Oh ! there you are," he continued, spying Peter 
by the stove. “Why, you’re a regular Will-o’-the- 
wisp, only one can always find ye if one knows where 
Lizzie is.’’ 

Mr. Forbes broke in here — 

. “ Tom is going to tell us about his new lake, Peter. 
Listen well, for I want to go to it some day with 
you.’’ 

Tom giggled. He always giggled when anything 
serious was said, and went into convulsions of laugh- 
ter if a joke was made. He was one of those men on 
w hom lecturers rely to start them into the humorous 
s pi r .it. °f their speech and take the keen edge off 
criticism. 

“ Go ahead, Tom,” said Peter; “ I’m listening.” 

“ Oh ! it aint much, Peter. I was just out hunt- 
ing back there in the bush before snow-fall, and I 
followed tracks for about ten miles, it might ha’ been 
more, and came across this lake. This was last year ; 
but I said nothing about it until I could sail round 
it. So in October past I took a birch canoe with me 
and portaged to the lake. There’s a couple of rued 
der6 there where the ducks are plenty in spring, and 
the deer and patriges thick in the fall. I sailed round 
the lake, and found there were three lakes, all joined 
like a chain, and maybe four miles long. That’s about 
all I can say, only that I’m going back there soon, 
and would make ye welcome to come with me.” 

“ Come, come, Tom,” said Mr. Forbes, “ what about 
the fishing and the shooting there, and the great trees 
and cliffs behind them ? ” 

“ Yes,” said Tom, “ there’s game for them as will 
hunt it.” And he said no more. 

At this instant the gallop of a horse was heard 
down the road, that increased until it stopped in front 
of the house. 

(To be continued.) 



DANIEL DEFOE. 



“ First of a race of giants, 

Liv’d Defoe.” — Ebenezer Elliott. 



I will essay to set before my readers a man to whom 
very seldom sufficient justice has been done. It may 
be sometimes a man’s misfortune to have done ono 
thing so exceedingly well that people forget all the 
rest of his works ; and I am sorry to say of many 
readers of English literature that all they know of 
Defoe is that he wrote “ Robinson Crusoe,” or, if they 
wished to make the most of that large knowledge, 
that “Robinson Crusoe” was written by Daniel Defoe. 
Considering that he was one of the most voluminous 
of our writers ; the greatest political pamphleteer, with 
one exception, we ever had ; the truest-hearted and 
most plucky defender of liberty ; and the writer of 
many books as great as “ Robinson Crusoe,” it is 
hardly fair that he should go down to history with so 
very simple an epitaph as — 

“ Here lies Daniel Defoe, 

Who wrote * Robinson Crusoe.’ ” 



Of course, I do not undertake to defend all of De- 
foe’s opinions, because if I did it would be impossible 
for some of my readers to enjoy the story, for what 
Defoe had to say he said with remarkable plainness. 
The views he took were always of the strongest, and 
generally a long way before the crowd ; and, there- 
fore, very little likely to be pleasing to all. There is, 
however, a wide difference between stating a man’s 
views historically and defending them controversially. 
Let us consider how different in character are his 
books — how grave are some, how serious others ; 
how loose were some, how studiously correct were 
others. 

To understand this problem, it is necessary to look 
at hi3 ancestry. His grandfather was a jolly old 
cavalier, who did not care much for politics, was fond 
of field sports, and named his dogs after the generals 
on both sides — called one Goring, and another 
Weller — and was equally careless which might prove 
himself the better. It must be remembered that some 
of his blood got into Daniel Defoe, for we may be at 
a loss if that fact is not kept in view in considering 
his life. His father, James Foe, was a very different 
person. He kept no dog, or if he did it was a 
butcher’s dog. He was a Dissenter of the grave sort, 
grim, Godly, God-fearing — not mirth-provoking. An 
excellent man, but not lively. Put the grandfather 
and the father together, and from this singular cross 
the strange character of Daniel Defoe may be ex- 
plained. Where he got the wonder-working De I 
cannot tell. There was some doubt about it, and 
I am rather afraid that we may be all fooled at times, 
and that Daniel Foe added the De in order to sink 
the paternal offal in Defoe. Daniel Foe — Daniel 
Defoe ! What a world of wealth it added. In child- 
hood he did not learn much, except he learned from 
a boxing boy never to strike an enemy when he is 
down — a rule he followed throughout his life. At 
that time the Popery fever set in — the incoming of 
Popery, etc. And the news went forth that very 
soon the Smithfield fires were to be relighted, and all 
the Bibles burnt. Whereupon young Defoe set about 
copying his Bible out in shorthand. He got as far as 
the end of the Pentateuch, but he was so tired of it 
that he expressed himself “ willing to risk the rest.” 
When he left school he was sent to an academy, to 
prepare him for the Dissenting ministry. He fell 
into the hands of the Rev. Charles Morton, a ripe 
scholar, from whom he acquired his knowledge. And 
Defoe, his father, a butcher, and he himself subse- 
quently a seller of stockings, was very naturally jealous 
of his learning. The easiest way of annoying him 
was to intimate that he was not a scholar. One of 
his chief depredators was a Mr. Tutchine, and Defoe 
challenged him in the following terms : — 

“ As to my little learning and this man’s (Mr 
Tutchine’s) great capacities, I fairly challenge him to 
translate any Latin, French, and Italian author, and 
afterwards to translate each crossways, for the sum of 
£20 each book, and by this we shall have an oppor- 
tunity to show before the world how much Daniel 
Defoe, hosier, is inferior to Mr. Tutchine, gentle- 
man.” 

This showed his learning. He did not offer simply 



44 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[188?. 



to translate Latin or French into English, but Latin 
into French, French into Italian, and so forth. 

There is no need to sketch the state of English 
manners at that period, when drunkenness was looked 
upon as an accomplishment, and the fewness of the 
commandments a man kept as a sign of common 
sense. It was at this time, when immorality was 
looked on as cleverness and worth, that this man, 
trained in godliness, brought up in strictness, his 
father a Dissenter, stepped forth into the light, fairly 
equipped, able to speak, able to write, and able, 
deeply, to think. And he began very soon to write, 
and his pen was ever ready in the cause of right. 
Large and small, his works numbered over a hundred. 
Let us glance at those most characteristic of the men 
of the time. 



The lest Act came up, and was much opposed by 
the Dissenters, chief among whom was Alderman 
Loves. In an open speech, he said : — “ I had much 
rather see the Dissenters suffer by rigour of the law, 
though I suffer with them, than see the law of Eng 
land trampled under foot of prerogative.” That was 
the key-note to the whole spirit of Defoe. Rather 
be a bondsman by law, than a freeman by favour ; 
rather go to Newgate by law, than to Court by the 
King’s breath. That was the spirit that filled this 
dauntless man all his life. His first book was called 
Speculum Crape Gown-orum” (a looking-glass for 
crape-gowns), written in reply to Roger L’Estrange, 
who had been making fun out of the Dissenters. 
There was plenty of room for this fun, but, to the 
astonishment of L’Estrange and the world, there came 
a man from out their camp as good as he, who held 
up to the clergy a looking-glass showing their faults 
in a manner they did not like. He was almost the 
fiist man that came out of the Dissenters that was 
able to laugh, and make anyone else laugh. 

Then came his history of the Hungaro-Austrian 
wars, which need not here be entered into. The 
next event, in his life was his joining the Duke of 
Monmouth’s expedition — a step taken by his intense 
hatred of the Stuarts. He had three great hates in 
his hfe— he hated the Pope, he hated the Stuarts, and 
he hated the Devil. But he had three great loves 
also— he loved the Whigs, he loved King William 
with manly passion, and he loved Dissent. The ex- 
pedition failed, but Defoe escaped, and came back to 
London, hating the Stuarts more than ever, and pre- 
pared to welcome King William more than before. 

in his private affairs he was next found visitin'? 
Spain, not on political, but on business, grounds” 
His friends called him a hose agent, his enemies a 
stocking seller. He was never calculated for a trades- 
man ; a wit behind the counter, no apron-string can 
bear, as he himself expressed it ; and he shortly 
became bankrupt. There are bankrupts, and bank- 
rupts ; and Defoe was the eccentric, the almost incon- 
ceivable, bankrupt, almost extinct, like the dodo, who 
paid his debts in full when he need not. He did not 
pay them at once, however. He went down to Bristol 
< uring the days of his darkness, and there, as the poor 
debtor, was only allowed one day’s grace a week • he 
acquired the name of the “ Sunday gentleman,” from 
being seen on the Sabbath day only. But his cominei- 



cial prospects became a little brighter. There came a 
gleam of sunshine, and he rose in political favour 
with King William, who made him accountant to the 
commissioners of the glass duty. He held this ap- 
pointment until the Court was broken up. Then he 
had the tile works at Tilbury, where he employed 100 
labourers, and was at his highest point of commercial 
importance. 

( Concluded in next issue) 



LADY STUDENTS AT OXFORD. 

BY ONE OF THEM. 

In speaking of the Oxford Women’s Colleges, and 
especially of Soraverville Hall, I shall not attempt to 
describe the course of study, first, because it would 
take too long ; and, secondly, anyone wishing for 
such information can obtain it fully from the pub- 
lished rules and regulations. 

There are two women’s colleges in Oxford — “ Lady 
Margaret Hall ” and “ Somerville,” or, more correctly, 
“ Mary Somerville Hall,” the main difference between 
them being that, while all students of the first must 
belong to the Church of England, the other is strictly 
undenominational. Somverville Hall consists of two 
buildings, the old and new halls, separated by the 
garden and tennis courts, and distinct establishments 
as regards meals, sitting-rooms, etc. The old hall 
accommodates about twenty-five students, the new, 
when finished, will hold thirty. Each student has 
one room, so arranged that all trace of the bed-room 
disappears by day, and the room is converted into a 
comfortable sitting-room or study. The heavy furni- 
ture is provided by the college, but all ornaments, as 
books, pictures, flowers, etc., are supplied by the 
student. When visitors are shown over the hall, 
many and various are the remarks made on the rooms. 
One old Don gazed attentively at my locker or win- 
dow seat, and asked if I kept my wine there. He 
was less curious than an American lady who, merely 
saying “ excuse me,” opened the said locker, and 
looked largely disgusted to find only paper and string. 

Besides these rooms, there are public dining-rooms, 
sitting-rooms, and in the new hall a library. At pre- 
sent the books, of which the hall has a valuable ool* 
lection, are in the old hall, but will be moved this 
year. 

A rapid sketch of the day will, perhaps, give the 
best idea of the ordinary life : — At 8 a.m. prayers are 
lead, and immediately follows the breakfast at several 
small tables, no rule as to places being observed. The 
latest comers are generally finished by 8.45, and, after 
a pleasant quarter of an hour over the newspapers in 
the sitting-room, the students separate to work and 
lectures. From one to two o’clock luncheon, an ex- 
ceedingly informal meal, goes on, and after it, as a 
rule, is “ play time.” In the winter the Hockey Club 
plays twice a week for an hour, in the summer there 
is tennis, and at both seasons there are delightful 
walks. Ro restriction is made as to the direction of 
the walks, except that no student may go alone 
through the town or into College gardens. At four 
o clock afternoon tea is ready in the drawing room 
lor those who wish it, or kettles are boiied in the 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



45 



1887.] 



students’ own dens, and private tea parties given. 
Then, till late dinner at seven, work is again the order 
of the day. This is the formal meal of the day, and 
is followed by tea, and often music and dancing, in 
the drawing-room till eight o’clock. The evening is 
variously employed. Most of the societies meet then, 
a few students give “ cocoas” or “ jams,” which take 
some time to prepare, but the majority work. At ten 
p.m. visiting begins, and at eleven it must cease, 
although no restriction is made as to the length of 
time the solitary student may consume the midnight 
oil. The number of hours’ work in the day varies 
greatly, the average time being from six to eight hours, 
exclusive of lectures. There are few, I might almost 
say no, cases of overwork, anyone attempting to de- 
stroy her health being severely ridiculed and censured 
by her fellow-students. 

“ Societies” among the students are numerous. The 
most important is the Debating Club, to which also 
“Lady Margaret” students and a few outsiders be- 
longed. The Browning and Shakespeare Societies 
meet once a week for an hour to read those poets ; the 
“ Sharp Practice” is intended as a preparation for the 
debate, and in the “ S. S. S.,” or “ Somerville Shop 
Society,” the members take turns to speak of and give 
information concerning their particular “ Shop,” in 
general a tabooed subject iu public. 

As regards outside engagements, students are merely 
obliged to tell the Lady Principal, Miss Shaw Lefevre, 
if they wish to be absent from meals, or to accept 
evening invitations. No dances are allowed, and all 
students must be in by eleven o’clock. 

I have spoken a great deal of the amusements of 
Somerville Hall, but it must not be thought that first- 
class honours are not taken, not much good, honest 
work done both during the short terms and the long 
vacations, and few students leave the College with- 
out much regret and many wishes that they were 
beginning instead of ending their Oxford College 
life 



GLEANINGS. 

It is possible that familiarity will accustom one to 
see nothing amiss in interspersing with Isaiah’s divine 
minstrelsy and the high narrative of Samuel’s requests 
for contributions of cake, so long as the “ Social life” 
is promoted, but to one who is in the habit of apply- 
ing broad rules, there will seem less incongruity in 
the excesses of the more aggressive Christians who 
parade the streets, interrupting the “ Sunday quiet ” 
with their “ new songs” and “ praises on the harp 
and stringed instruments.” 

* 

* * 

Religious texts, when rendered sufficiently hard and 
mechanical, make excellent weapons in the hands of 
a man who is sufficiently earnest to be narrow and 
unthinking, but this use of them makes strongly for 
those who claim that religion is a simple thing, as 
understandable by the present dwellers in the earth, 
as by the Galillean fishermen, needing the support of 
no marvellous system, and owing its existence in that 
it meets the wants of humanity. 



There is no other city where so much thoughtful 
attention is bestowed upon students, and no Univer- 
sity, as a conseqence, in which that Ishmaelitic spirit, 
characteristic of all studentdom, prevails in so small 
a degree ; and there is further, at McGill, an amount 
of true, faithful living centred and stimulated by its 
Christian societies. But it will be a sad, though not 
unusual, overstepping, if a sort of freemasonry is estab- 
lished, which holds that those who are not with them 
in the spiritual life they must be against in things 

temporal. 

* 

* * 

Not many will deny that the Gazette has been 
swift to lay its finger on the University and say — here 
and here thou ailest. From the nature of the case it 
was unnecessary to point to the parts which were 
whole ; all this was learned by inference ; but the 
Library deserves special stress for its fulness, accurate 
arrangement, and inviting appearance. 

* 

* * 

For a commentary on the judgment and culture of 
the book club and friends of the University, let one 
but read a list of the books presented to the Library 
during the past quarter. Each one is a prize, and 
not only merits, but demands, examination — such a 
lot as a man would choose to live with : — Victor 
Hugo, 46 vols. ; Lamartine, 14 vols. ; Arnold, Mill, 
The Oxford Movement, Rosseti, Essays, and works on 
Science — a mine of them. A field too thickly 3trewn 
for gleaning . 

* 

:k * 

The new blood is beginning to make itself felt. 
Not many years ago it would have been impossible to 
include in such a list the names of Oscar Wilde and 
Mark Twain, and the line was drawn from motives 
of economy, at least this side of T. B. Aldrich, 
Nathaniel Hawthorne, and Paul de Chaillu. 

* 

5fc 5k 

When one has, in complacent ignorance, sneered 
unconditionally at an unknown name, and finds, by 
some happy chance, that there was something of a 
divine message in the “ theorists’ fad,” he gets an 
inkling of the meaning of the German when he 
affirmed that we English-born are pedants — ruled by 
phrases. 

=k 

± * 

There is a singular agreement among moralists in 
the caution they give against “making a fuss” as Epic- 
tetus puts it, about things the pursuit of which is 
clearly legitimate The great teacher urges us to take 
no thought for the morrow, for the morrow shall take 
thoughts for the things of itself. We are advised by 
another to eat and drink, for to-morrow we die. Even 
St. Paul admitted that there is a possibility of becom- 
ing too religious ; and Emerson, in his persuasive 
tones, urges us not to give nature cause to exclaim 
“ so hot, my little sir.” 



“ Now is the winter of our disconnect,” said Prof. 
Smifkins when the train ran into a snow-bank. 



46 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1887. 



FEATHERS FROM THE EAST WING. 



Of the three undergraduates in the 1st year, two 
have petitioned the Dean to he allowed to go without 
academic dress until after Christmas, when they hope 
there will be some more full students to keep them in 
countenance. 



Some wicked man suggests that the lady students 
should organize a curling club. Yes, but then you 
see if we had to wait like the Scot, until our locks 
were freezed up, a curling club would be rather 
superfluous, would it not 1 



intently to his description of the primitive methods 
followed in heathen lands in surgery and medicine. 
He particularly emphasized the fact that the art of 
healing might be used as an introduction to the Gos- 
pel itself. Mr. McKillop presented the claims of the 
Medical Missionary Society, and after his address a 
resolution was passed unanimously, heartily approv- 
ing of the object of the said society, and expressing 
the hope that its headquarters in Canada would be in 
Montreal. 



Societies. 



From the appearance of the 1st year lecture room the 
other day, one might have imagined that the classic 
personage, of whom it was said 

“ Whither old lady, whither so high. 

To sweep the cobwebs off the sky ? ” 

had been riding through on a tour of inspection ; and 
that, being startled by the sudden appearance of a pro- 
fessor, she had tried to escape by the skylight, and in 
her hurry, left her steed behind her, suspended in 
mid air. 



A new feature in the ladies department this year, 
has been the excursions of the 4th year class in geology: 

“ Many a little hand 

Glanced like a touch of sunshine on the rocks, 

Many a light foot shone like a jewel set 

In the dark crag : and then we turned, we wound 

About the cliffs, the copses, out and in, 

Hammering and clinking, chattering stony names 
Of shale and hornblende, rag and trap and tuff, 
Amygdaloid and trachyte.” 



TflciBiU Keuis. 



F. Macallum has been elected Yaledictorian for 
this year in the Faculty of Arts. 

At a meeting of the students in Medicine, the fol- 
lowing resolution was passed concerning the death of 
Mr. Davis, which occurred Oct. 27th. 

Resolved — That we, the undergraduates of McGill 
Medical College, learn with feelings of most profound 
regret that death has removed from among us Mr. H. 
H. Davis, one of our number and a member of the 
class of ’88 j that we desire to express our deep sense 
of the loss of one, who not only gave promise of being 
a successful practitioner in the medical profession, 
but whose kindly disposition won for him the warm 
friendship and good-will of all who knew him, and 
that furthermore we desire to extend to his bereaved 
family our deepest and most heartfelt sympathy in 
their sorrow. 

At the regular Sunday afternoon meeting of the 
McGill University Y.M.C.A., Rov. 13th, Rev. P. S. 
McKillop, M.D., of St. Albans, Vt., delivered an in- 
teresting and valuable address on the importance of a 
medical training to a foreign missionary. A large 
number of medical students were present, and listened 



UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY. 



This society has elected the following officers for 
the ensuing year : — 



President 

1st Vice-President.. 
2nd “ 

Cor. -Secretary 

Rec. “ 



Council 



Selkirk Cross, B.A., B.C.L. 

A. R. Oughtred, B.C.L. 

D. R. Murphy, LL.B. 

Francis McLennan B.A., B.C. 

Chs. A. Barnard 

'R. C. Smith, B.C.L. 

C. J. Doherty, Q.C. 

A. McGoun, B.A., B.C.L. 

I A. G. Cross, B.A. B.C.L. 

| S. P. Leet, B.C.L. 

bJ. F. Mackie, B.A., B.C.L. 



L. 



McGILL MEDICAL SOCIETY. 

This Society meets every fortnight during the 
Winter Session, and every week during the Summer 
Session. The officers for the present year are : — 

Honorary President. Dr. James Stewart. 

President. - - - W. G. Stewart, ’88. 

Vice-President. - R. P. Berry, '88. 

Secretary. - - - G. G. Campbell, ’89. 

Treasurer. - - - T. H. Wetmore, ’88. 

Librarian. - - - W. S. England, ’89. 

Pathologist. - - 0. H. Hubbard, ’88. 

Although all undergraduates in the MedicalFaculty 
are members of this Society, it will be noticed that 
the officers are chosen mostly from the final year, ’88. 
This is necessitated from the fact that a large part of 
the work of the Society is carried on during the 
Summer Session, and the final men alone, as a rule, 
remain in town for this term. 

At each of the regular meetings, a paper is read by 
one of the members. The Pathologist of the Society 
then exhibits his specimens prepared for the evening, 
and after ten minutes spent in examination of these, 
one or more reports of cases of general interest are 
given by members. 

The Society was enabled this year to promise a 
series of lectures, to be delivered by different members 
of the Faculty. Three of these have been given 
already, two during Summer Session, by Dr. Roddick, 
and Dr. MacDonnell, and one during present Session, 
by Dr. Stewart. The lectures are delivered at every 
second meeting, taking the place of the paper and case 
report for the evening. 

Besides Dr. Stewart’s lecture, there has been one 
other regular meeting of the Society this Session, at 



1887.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



47 



which Mr. 0. H. Hubbard read a paper entitled, “ The 
Nasal Cavities.” Mr. R. M. Kincaid reported a case 
of Acute Bright’s Disease. 



THE DELTA SIGMA. 

At a regular meeting held on Tuesday, November 
1st., two essays, the first of a series on “ Famous 
Women,” were read by Misses A. Murray and S. Scott, 
the subjects being, “ Catherine II. of Russia,” and 
“ Maria Theresa.” Miss G. Finlay also read a short 
poem entitled “ Heroines.” 

A debate was held on Thursday, November 10th, 
the subject being, “ Is reading a more fruitful source 
of information than observation ? ” The speakers 
were: — Affirmative, Misses M. Evans and J. Botterell; 
Negative — Misses C. M. Derick and A. Williams. 
The affirmative won by a majority of three. It was 
decided to send a vote of thanks to Dr. Murray, who 
has very kindly altered his lecture hours for the con- 
venience of the society. It was also decided to intro- 
duce short extempore debates, at those meetings at 
which essays were read. 

A new society has been organized by the lady 
undergraduates of the 2nd year, under the name of 
“ The Donalda Missionary Society.” Meetings will 
be held monthly, the programme to consist of essays 
on missionary fields and women workers, and appro- 
priate readings. No admission fee is asked; all 
contributions, as well as the essays will be voluntary. 
There are already nineteen members, a number of 
ladies from the other years having joined. The 
officers are : — 



President Miss C. M. Derick, ’90. 

Vice-President “ J. V. Palmer, ’88. 

Secretary “ J. Botterell, ’90 



The first regular meeting was held on Tuesday, 
November 8th. Interesting papers on “ The needs 
of missions” were read by Miss Abbott and Miss 
Williams, and readings were given by Misses Mc- 
Farlane, Scott, and J. Botterell. 

We congratulate our Sophomores for taking the lead 
in this matter ; and we are sure that the D.M.S., if it 
continues as it has begun, will prove a power for good 
amongst the lady students of McGill. 



Y.M.C.A. RECEPTION. 

A reception was extended by the Y.M.C.A. to the 
new men of this year on Friday evening, October 21. 
Through the kindness of Sir Wm. Dawson the Red- 
path Museum building was obtained for the occasion. 
All the students of the University were invited, 
besides many of the citizens of Montreal. About four 
hundred responded ; and when all were assembled in 
the brilliantly lighted Museum, anyone could tell, by 
the hearty greetings, happy smiles, and weighty 
remarks, that it was a regular students’ meeting. There 
was no formal programme : but Rev. Dr. Barbour 
Principal of Congregational College, offered prayer ; 
then a short address was given by Mr. McDougall, 
President Y.M.C.A., in which he extended, in the 
name of the Association, a hearty welcome to all, and 
especially to the Freshmen ; and explained the object 



and working of the Association. Then Sir Wm. Dawson 
spoke briefly, expressing his gratification in seeing the 
growth of the Association in numbers and influence. 
He was sorry, however, to have to receive them in a 
Museum, surrounded by skeletons and fossils ; he 
hoped that soon, through the liberality of the friends 
of the College in the city, the Association would have 
a building of its own in which such gatherings might 
be held. 

Hereupon “ the meeting was thrown open ” and 
general conversation ensued, hushed now and then, 
to listen to the sweet musical strains that added so 
much to the pleasure of the occasion. The songs of 
the Harmony Quartette, composed of Messrs. Hewitt, 
Kemp, Morphy and Wheeler, the solos by Messrs 
Bain and Hewitt, and the instrumental pieces by 
Messrs. Fraser, Baker, and Becket, were all received 
with applause and heartily encored. 

Refreshments were served in due time ; and when 
the hour for parting came, all went away feeling well 
pleased with the entertainment of the evening. 
The Association is becoming better known each 
year, and deservedly more appreciated. Its object 
is to unite its members to help each other to live true, 
manly, Christian lives. By its annual reception to the 
Freshmen — “which” Dr. Barbour, who comes from 
Yale, remarked “was better than hazing them” — it 
seeks to make itself known to the new students, and 
to gain their interest and support. 



UNDERGRADUATES’ LITERARY SOCIETY. 

18th November. — One of the most interesting 
debates ever held by this Society, took place on the 
above date. The subject under discussion was the 
alleged Baconian authorship of the works of Shake- 
speare. Messrs. Mackie, Jamieson and Fry, argued 
that Francis Bacon wrote the plays, while Messrs. 
England, Ellingwood and Charters opposed them. 
The speeches showed that considerable thought had 
been bestowed on the matter, and the debate throught- 
out was very interesting. The vote was in favor of 
the Baconian theory. 

J. E. LeRossignol read a carefully prepared essay 
on “ Aristocracies.” 

J. A. Nicholson, B. A., was welcomed by the meet- 
ing, and appointed critic for the evening. 

25th November. — A large gathering greeted Dr. 
Johnson, the Dean of the Arts Faculty, when he rose 
to give his lecture on “ Universities.” His remarks 
throughout were listened to with great interest, and 
were frequently applauded. He commenced by 
reviewing the history of the Universities of Athens 
and Alexandria, and showed their influence on similar 
institutions of the present day. Tracing the subject 
further, through the Saracens and the schools of Bag- 
dad, he spoke of the institution and early life of the 
great English Universities, and through them reached 
our own McGill. He explained many matters of 
interest, — such as the origin of the different degrees 
and of the ceremonies at convocation, the discipline of 
the older schools and the domestic life of their 
students, and the difference between colleges and 
universities. His remarks were interspersed with 



48 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1887. 



many well-told jokes, which were highly appreciated 
by his audience. He spoke of a fellow-student who 
jumped out of bed one cold windy morning, and, clad 
only in his night attire, went out into the corridor to 
receive his morning’s milk, from the milkman. 
Unfortunately the door of his room was blown to by 
the wind, and the lock slipped. “ He was in a very 
bad fix,” quaintly remarked the doctor, “ for a milk 
jug is not much protection on a chilly morning.” He 
told of a student who, in an examination paper re- 
quired to be written in Latin, described a point 
situated without a circle as being “ sine circulo ; ” and 
he spoke of the early discipline at Oxford, which pro- 
vided that an adult student should be fined a penny 
for non-attendance at church, and that a boy should 
be whipped. 

Altogether the lecture was one of great interest, 
and the Society is indebted to the Dean for his cour- 
teous compliance with their invitation. 



Sporting. 



We regret that a report of the Football match 
between the Montreal and McGill clubs, was unavoid- 
ably crowded out of our last issue. It is now too late 
to publish it. — Sporting Ed. U.G. 



Exchanges. 



Dalhousie Gazette. — The enterprising sheet of one 
of our youngest colleges, comes to us laden with spicy 
college news. There is a strong editorial plea in 
favour of more support being given the class societies 
and debating clubs. We endorse every word of it. 

Colby Echo. — This paper will always have a hearty 
welcome at our hands. Its appearance is much in its 
favor. The prize article on the “ Genius of Haw- 
thorne,” is a very good estimate of the power of one 
of America’s most talented sons. 

The Argosy. — The history of the class of ’87 is writ- 
ten up in a fresh and chatty style. \ ivid and telling 
descriptions are also given of each member of the 
Freshman class. 

Tuftonian.— In the issue of Nov. 21st is a well- 
written article on “ Oratory.” The writer pleads that 
more attention should be paid to public speaking. 
W e heartily endorse the sentiment. How much does 
our college do for its students in this way 1 Nothing : 
And the majority of the students do not try to teach 
themselves, hence the poor speeches at our dinners, 
etc. We read Demosthenes in Greek, let us try to 
rival him in oratory. 

College Student. — This is one of the best of our ex- 
changes. All departments are full and well conduct- 
®d. The first article shows the connection between 
classic Greek and New Testament Greek, historically 
and grammatically, and the importance of its study to 
all who wish to understand the New Testament cor- 
rectly. 



THE SINGER TO HER CRITIC. 

Dearer than fame the trumpet-tongued, to woman’s heart is love. 
The silver-voiced whose lightest sigh her being’s depths can move. 
Misjudge not then if up the height her feebler flight essay : 

The strength is thine, the weakness hers, yet both one law obey. 
The law immutable, to use the talent freely giv’n. 

Nor from its course seek to divert the purpose of a life, 

But straight and clear as warbling bird that soars to highest heav’n. 
Direct the thought, God sent, whether for peace or strife. 

And out in His great world perchance some soul haply unknown 
To her and thee, sore let and hindered in the race, 

Will read the truth, and strengthened, lifted, that not all alone 
He suffer, bless the singer, though he never see her face. 

Montreal. Erol Gervase. 



Personals. 



Dr. E. P. Williams, ’87, is in the city spending a 
week or so with his friends. 



Between the Lectures. 



“ Sometimes,” said the teacher, “ history repeats 
itself. Can you give me an instance 1 ” 

“ Yes, sir,” said the smart, bad boy, with a slow, 
pained tone of expression ; “ it will have to do so at 
this recitation, if it wants to get repeated, because I 
cannot do it.” — Burdette. 

His Practical Value. — Tommy (aged five) — 
“ What do you do to the theatre, Mister Simpkins l ” 
Simpkins (a dude ) — “ D-do to the theatre, my little 
man ? I don’t do anything at the theatre. I am not 
an actor. W-what put that in your head? ” 

Tommy — “ Well, sister Annie said she wouldn’t 
have you around only she thought you were good for 
the theatre once a Aveek.” 



SCIENCE SUCCINCTLY SIMMERED. 



bill nye anticipates the savants’ speeches and 
makes a suggestion or two. 

(New York World.) 

To-day at ten o’clock, in the library of Columbia 
College, the various members of the American Associa- 
tion for the Advancement of Science will meet. Let 
them have a full house. Nothing has done more for 
us as a people than science. Any man who stays away 
from this meeting for any trivial reason is not the friend 
of his race. 

In the afternoon Prof. William Ferrel, of Washing- 
ton, will address the mathematical and astronomical 
section on subjects related to mathematics and astrono- 
my. He will let the bright sunlight of science in on 
the great question of how many apples James will 
have if he give two to Henry and three to Jane. He 
will also lay bare several plants and show how long it 
would take a limited train to run from Kansas City to 
Saturn, and how old the fresh figs would be when the 
train got there. Prof. W. A. Anthony, of Ithaca, will 
address the section devoted to physics on the subject 
of physics. To those who have groped along for a 
lifetime in the densest ignorance regarding physics, 



1887.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



49 



this will be a great boon. Prof. Albert B. Prescott, 
of Ann Arbor, will attend to the subject of chemistry 
and show what things are made of. The Professor 
will go back to the time when there was something 
rotten in Denmark, and show how it came to be that 
way; and how it might have been prevented. 

Prof. Coxe, ot Drifton, Pa., will handle mechanical 
science in a thrilling manner, and Prof. Gilbert of 
Washington, will attend to the matter of geology, 
showing why the practice of geology leads to earnest 
thought and pays a good salary. He will also introduce 
some prehistoric tracks of a large blue bug, and show 
by a close mathematical calculation how far the bug 
must have gone by this time. He will also handle 
geography, and show why a promontory is almost 
always a high and rocky point of land projecting into 
the water. Prof. W. G. Farlow, of Cambridge, will 
take up the biological subject which relates mostly to 
biology. Biology is not, as many have thought, opposed 
to Christianity, but is in many respects in harmony 
with it. Dr. D. G. Brinton, of Media, Pa., will attend 
to the anthropological section, unjointing his subject 
in the presence of the association and then putting it 
together again when he gets through with his remarks. 
Prof. Henry E. Alvord, of Amherst, Mass., will attend 
to the section devoted to economic science, and show 
why science is economical. 

Much light will be thrown on various subjects of 
common interest to those who have not time to pry 
into science, and every one ought to shut up the store 
and go all day. 

It is claimed that during the session competent 
scientists will explain why a cyclone should suck a 
well dry on a Minnesota farm and ignore a new milch 
cow. Also why a cyclone will drive a dozen angle- 
worms through a grindstone head first without injuring 
either the worms or the grindstone. Also why hydrau- 
lic rams do better in a moist climate. 

Hog cholera and the swine plague will be treated in 
a bright and chatty manner by Dr. Salmon to-day, and 
those who have never abandoned themselves to wild, 
delirious joy, should go and hear this paper and see the 
bright red pictures which accompany it. 

Bill Nye. 



Itorresponbence. 



Editors University Gazette : — 

Dear Sirs, — In your issue of the 19th inst. appear- 
ed an editorial on the Law Faculty, which calls, per- 
haps, for a brief comment. While fully sustaining 
your position, in reference to class rooms, whose only 
redeeming feature is their central situation, and 
agreeing with you, that the Law School of McGill 
compares very favorably with the others of this 
Province, we go still further and assert that in the 
training afforded, it is unsurpassed, if equalled, by 
any other in Canada. 

But we must take exception to your criticism of the 
method in which the professors — all of whom have a 
recognized professional standing in the Province, 
some of them a reputation extending beyond Canada 
. — carry on their class work. 



The training we receive amply fulfils its primary 
objects, viz., a broad and comprehensive survey of 
those great principles of law which underlie every 
system of jurisprudence, and the mapping out of the 
one in force in this Province, leaving to the student 
himself the task of filling in the details. 

That the severe criticisms of the Gazette, two or 
three years ago, have not been barren of result is true ; 
it is equally true that the chief result has been to place 
in the hands of powerful enemies, a weapon of which 
they were not slow to avail themselves, in attempting, 
not unsuccessfully, to legislate our Faculty out of ex- 
istence. 

If such be the fruits of the agitation for reform, 
which our outside friends have undertaken of their 
own accord, is it surprising, that as self-preservation 
still continues to be nature’s first law, we cry “ save 
us from our friends.” 

3rd Year Student. 



Editors of the University Gazette : — 

Dear Sirs : — We all, as students having the welfare 
of our University at heart, must be forcibly impressed 
by your editorial of the 18th Nov. regarding the lack 
of support given to our College schemes by the ma- 
jority of the students. Since rather more than one- 
half of the Arts men are those who intend entering 
Theology afterwards, it would naturally follow from 
this fact that the largest part of those supporting our 
College schemes are theological students. Is this 
what is found to be the case 1 If not, then one can 
hardly expect to find our societies, etc., in the most 
flourishing condition. If we look into the matter, we 
find that some of the most active members of our Lit- 
erary Society are theological students ; that two of the 
new men on the Gazette this year are also of that 
persuasion ; that our tug-of-war team, which so nobly 
won the day for Arts, was composed almost entirely 
of men of that kind, and that they hold important 
offices in our societies as a rule. For the part they 
are taking in upholding their College, we esteem them 
more highly than we otherwise would ; unfortunately, 
however, it seems that these men do not by any means 
constitute the majority of the theological students. 

It seems surprising that out of nearly two hundred 
students, our Literary Society only numbers about 
forty students. The same signs of surprise must be 
shown by new students and those outside of our col- 
lege at the support given to the Reading-room, “ Ga- 
zette,” Y.M.C.A., and other institutions of the col- 
lege. Are not these a part of the university education, 
and by no means the least important part of it? While 
we are students in the University let us not refuse our 
support to these schemes which tend to increase the 
influence of our University in many ways. It seems, 
to say the least, inconsistent for a student to refuse 
support to these schemes on the ground that the said 
schemes are not worthy of his support, because it is 
certainly upon the students themselves that the use- 
fulness of these things depends. Now, sirs, is it not 
a question whether we do not deeply injure our fel- 
low students by refusing our support to these things, 
as we by refusing support deprive them of the benefits 



50 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1887. 



which naturally follow from societies, etc., which are 
well supported. Are wo acting fairly to our fellow 
students, or in fact to ourselves and our college, by re- 
fusing our aid to the institutions which are the soul 
and spirit of college life i 

Yours sincerely, 

Fair Play. 



TUTORING. 



MR. W. B. T. MACAULAY, 

EDINBURGH UNIVERSITY AND HIGH SCHOOL, MONTREAL, 
:o : 

Students fitted for Matriculation into all Faculties of the 
University and for other Examinations. 

2239 ST. CATHERINE ST. 







SPARHAM ROOFING CEMENT. 



:o: 

The only Cement that has stood the test for the past fourteen 
years. All others have proved failures. 



CAMPBELL & CO., 

Sole -A-gren-ts for l^Corxtres.1 a.rxd. 'ViciELlt^r- 

OFFICE, 309 ST. JAMES STREET. 



D. NIGHTINGALE, 

Manufacturer and Dealer in 

Pool and billiard tables, 

IVORY AND COMPOSITION BALLS, 

Tips, Chalk, Plain and Fancy Cues, Billiard Cloths, Ssc. 

Tables Altered, Repaired, Cut Down, &c. 

1742 Notre Dame Street, MONTREAL. 



Special to the Doctors and S tudents ! 

THE UP-TOWN GENTS’ FINE FURNISHERS. 

Collars and Cuffs, Shirts and Drawers, 
White Shirts made to order. 

SPECIAL TERMS TO THE STUDENTS. 



A. P. GRAHAM & CO., 

2230 St. Catherine Street, - Opposite Queen's Hall, 



Boots and Shoes, 

Rubbers, Overshoes and Moccasins 

— AT — 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

SHOE STORES, 

UP TOWN : QUEEN'S HALL BLOCK, 

2243 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 



Wm.N 



OTMAN 



& Son, 



* * 



* * 




-X- * •*•**•* •*_ * * * * * * 

h oto graphers 

* * * *“Tr *******4»***** 



Jfevu Beale of Trices this year 
for Students. 

17 BLEURY STREET. 



The Mutual Life Insurance Co. 

OF UNTZEW YORK 

ISSUES EVERY DESIRABLE FORM OF POLICY. 

Assets, ------ $115,000,000 

Surplus, ------ 16,000,000 

The MUTUAL of New Tort is the largest LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY in the world, with the best record. 

AGENTS WANTED IN UNREPRESENTED DISTRICTS. 

Students can improve their circumstances considerably by acting as Agents in tbeir own Localities during Vacation. 

FAYETTE BROWN, Gen. Manager. 

1^62 NOTRE DAME STREET, 



MONTREAL 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



E. & C. GURNEY & CO„ 

3SS 387 St. Steeet, Montebal. 



STOVES, 

GRATES, 

RANGES, 

SCALES. 



GURNEY’S 



[ elebruted Hot Water Heuters 



AND 

Cast Bundy Radiators. 



— +Wholesale Manufacturers *— 




Hot Air Furnaces 

FOR 

Coal or Wood. 



ALL GOODS GUARANTEED. 



Circulars on A pp Heat ion. 



385 & 387 

St. Paul Street, 

MONTREAL. 



Established 1859 . 

Hbi IE 3 - 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST, 

144 ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STREET, 

Montreal. 

The Dispensing of Physicians* Prescriptions a Specialty. 
Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers sup- 
plied with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 




THE 

GEORGE BISHOP 

^ngiiaving ^ )jV t inting 

Company. 

169 & 167 ST. JAMES ST , MONTREAL. 



limitations, Cards, Orests, programmes, 
plonograms, &e., &e. 

IN THE LATEST STYLES. 



Doctors’ and Students’ Headquarters 

— FOR — 




Spillcr & Co.’s (London, E.) Du Khedive Extra Fine 
CIGARETTES. 

Lowe & Co/s THOMPSON PIPES and others. 



Largest and most Complete Stock of CANES in the City. VIRGINIA 
and TURKISH TOBACCOS. 

a. a. ©aHTH, 

2235 St. Catherine Street, Queen’s Block. 



-Me PHOTOGRAPHY 

For CABINET PHOTOS., go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORE’S. 

For GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORE’S. 

For COMPOSITION OF GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORE’S. 

For all kinds of PHOTOGRAPHY, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD’S, 
SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleury Street 

SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS 
AH CHEMICAL APPARATUS. 

S tfull $todk don£tki\tly or\ Skqd, Imported 
f)fredt from tl)e I<ekdir|g ^kgufkdttfredd 
of tl\e Wofld. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. 

LYMAN, SONS & CO., 

384 ST. PAUL STREET. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 




254 St. James Street, and 15 St. Lawrence Main Street, MONTREAL 
and 73 Sparks Street, OTTAWA. 



TELEPHONE No. 580. 




(LIMITED.) 



21 2h & 23 St Antoine Street MONTREAL 

T. H. LOVE, Managing Director. 

Our Laundry having been Refitted with the Latest and Most Im- 
proved Machinery, we are now prepared to offer special inducements to 

Families, Hotels, Steamships and Public Institutions, 

for the Washing and Finishing of Goods. Particular attention given to the 
Washing and Dressing of Goods for Shirt and Collar Manufacturers. 
Goods damaged by Water Cleaned and Re-finished to look equal to new. 
Lace and other Fine Work carefully Cleaned and Finished. No Chem- 
icals Used and Goods less roughly handled than by the ordinary hand 
work. Special Contracts made, and Tenders for work furnished on 
application. 

GOODS CALLED FOR AND DELIVERED FREE OF CHARGE. 



THE GENUINE 

OOOI^’S Fhieitd 

BAKING POWDER 

Is the BEST VALUE in the market, is made from 
the PUREST INGREDIENTS, gives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to the user, and should be pre- 
ferred by all careful housekeepers. Retailed 
everywhere. 



C. ASHFORD’S 
CHEAP BOOK, STATIONERY, 

AND 

FANCY GOODS SHOP, 

MEDICAL BOOKS, 

Students’ Note Books, Dissecting Cases and Scalpels, 

(BY WEISS & SON,) 

GKEAF FOR CASH. 

Books procured to order from England & the United States 

816 AND 818 DORCHESTER ST., 



Corner 

McGill 

and 

Notre Dame 



Streets. 




Corner 

McGill 

and 

Notre Dame 

Streets. 



FOR- 



Overcoats, Suits, and Gents’ Underwear. 



LARGEST STOCK IN CANADA TO SELECT FROM. 



SuitSa^Overcoats Made to Order , American Styles. 

ESPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS.“©a 



