


Vol. XIII. 



No. 1 . 















UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, Guerin & Greenshields, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, &c., 

Chambers: exchange Bank Building, 

1728 NOTRE DAME STREET, - - MONTREAL 

J. N. Greenshields. Edmond Guerin. R. A. E- Greenshields. 



Antiseptic Materials, Bandages, Etc., 

MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BV 

W. A. DYER & CO. , 
Pharmaceutical & Dispeusiug; Chemists, 



ROBERTSON, FLEET k FALCONER, 

ADVOCATES, 

157 ST. T-ALTIES STREET, 
MONTREAL. 

ATWATER & MACKIE, 

Advocates, Barristers, Commissioners, k, 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING-, 

151 St. James St., Montreal. 



MASTER, HUTCHINSON, WEIR k McLENNAN, 

ADVOCATES, 

BARRISTERS, SOLICITORS, &c., 
175 St. James St., Montreal, 

DONALD MACMASTER, Q.C. r, g. WEIR, B.C.L. 

M. HUTCHINSON, B.C-L. F. S. MCLENNAN, B.C.L. 



CHAPLEAU, HALL, NICOLLS & BROWN, 



ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Commissioners, &c., 



117 St. James 

Hon. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. 

JOHN S. HALL, Jr. 



St., Montreal. 

ARMINE D. NICOLLS 
ALBERT. J BROWN. 




PURE CANDY. 

254 St. James Street, and 15 St. Lawrence lain street, MONTREi 
and 73 Snarls; street, OTTAWA. 



14 & 16 Phillips Square, Cor. St. Catherine St. , 

MONTREAL. 

Bandages, Roller, Muslin, 

Bandages, Cotton, 

Bandages. Absorbent, 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze, 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, Assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent, 

Cotton Wool, Borated, 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated, 

Cotton Wool, Sublimated. 

Drainage Tubes, Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent, 

Gauze, Borated, 

Gauze, Carbolized, 

Gauze, Eucalyptol, 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze. Naphthalin, 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill; Inhalers, Celluloid, 

Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached, 

Jute, Absorbent, 

Jute, Carbolized, 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes; 
Sponges, Antiseptic; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain; Sponges, 
Gamgee’s Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies’. 



HEADQUARTE RS 

-FOR— 

School aid College Text Books ! 



DRYSDALE’S 

232 ST. CTJ^IMIIES ST 



.HF.lHC.il. WORKS, BOOHS USER IJ\~ .HIT COURSE, 
SCMJSJX'CJE TEXT HOOKS, 

THE VARIOUS THEOLOGICAL ROOKS. 

Full Assortment in Stock and Supplied at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books. &c., &.c ., 

^ B E ST Y ALU HI I IV T O W N , 

Stylographic Pens, Anti-Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty. 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

^ I • James 

ALSO 

Branch Store 1423 St. Catherine St. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 

Yol. XIII.] MoGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, OCTOBER 31st, 1889. r No - L 



Uniiumtj) (Sa^tte. 

BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

J. F. Mackie, B.A., B.C.L., President. 

J. A. Elliott, Arts ’90, Vice-President. 

C. A. Barnard, Law ’89, Sec.-Treas. 

C. F. Martin, B.A., Med. ’91. 

Peers Davidson, Arts ’90. 

W. Dixon, B.A. 

EDITORS. 

J. A. MacPhail, B.A., Editor-in-Chief. 

Blanche B. Evans, B.A. F. W. Hibbard, Law’91. 

S. W. Mack, Arts ’91. A. H. Hawkins, Science ’90. 

D. B. Holden, Med. ’92. 

Maud Abbott, ’90, Editor for Ladies’ Department. 
Arthur Weir, B.A. Sc., Corresponding Editor. 

The University Gazette is published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which rule 
no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

Published by The University Gazette Co., P. 0. Box 
1290, Montreal, and printed by The Burland Lith. Co., 9 
Bleury Street. 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE. 

Editorials 3-5 

Contributions - - • 5-6 

McGill News 6-8 

Societies 9-11 

Poetry 9, 15 

Sporting 11-13 

Personals 13-15 

Exchanges 15 

Between the Lectures 15 

College World 16 



Editorials. 



« the university GAZETTE." 

At the opening of last session it was announced 
that a number of the foremost Canadian writers would 
enrich The Gazette with their contributions, and this 
year, again, we are able to state that our readers will 
have the same advantage. 

Five years ago a number of students and under- 
graduates, conscious of the value of a college journal, 
and anxious to place one upon a sound financial basis, 
organized a joint-stock company for the publishing of 
The University Gazette. Their object was to secure 



permanency to the paper by obtaining a capital which 
would always guarantee its regular appearance. The 
students, relieved from any financial concern, and 
provided with a paper equal to that issued by any 
University, came to depend almost wholly upon a 
few graduates for its support. But the graduates, 
having no special interest in the paper apart from the 
students, feel no longer bound to support it unaided, 
and are now appealing to the undergraduates to as- 
sume a larger share in the responsibility and manage- 
ment. At present, on the editorial board, there is 
only one member who is not a student, and now that 
the students have the full control of it, they should 
also yield it a full support by subscribing freely and 
buying the shares which still remain unsold. The 
original capital was $1,000, divided into ten dollar 
shares, of which five dollars is to be paid up. Sixty 
shares, valued at $300, have been sold, and the pro- 
ceeds invested at seven per cent, and forty shares yet 
remain at five dollars each. A general meeting of 
students was held, and it was decided to buy these 
up, and either hold them individually or in trust by 
succeeding years. The labour involved in issuing 
The Gazette regularly can be only understood by 
those who have experienced it, and it is the smallest 
part of the students’ duty to give the paper that sup- 
port which it deserves. There is at present no cause 
for contention between The Gazette and the Univer- 
sity or with the students, and now that its control 
rests with the students, their support is essential to 
its continuance. This first number is merely experi- 
mental, and the appearance of the second number 
will depend upon what action the students take in 
the next two weeks. 



A UNIVERSITY BANQUET. 

Not many years since, it was the custom of the 
students of the Faculty of Arts to hold four annual 
dinners in the respective four “ years” or classes of 
that faculty. That this narrowing and exclusive plan 
yielded to the present one, which embraces all the 
students of the faculty, and the professors as well, in 
one general convivial gathering, has hardly been a 
matter of regret, even to those who had annually 
banqueted under the former method. Of course, this 



4 



UNIVEKSITY GAZETTE. 



[1889. 



change may have been brought about from considera- 
tion of the fact that the other faculties were not ad- 
dicted to this sub-classification, and that Arts, to be 
fairly represented in this, by no means unimportant 
place of students’ social life, would be obliged to 
hold one dinner representative of it as a faculty of 
the University. Allowing for this apparently strong 
inducement towards unity in the matter, we question 
whether the union among the several classes and the 
greater importance of the annual event in the faculty 
itself, are not the best results of the change. Now, 
there is hardly a valid reason why this principle of 
unity in the matter of dinners should not be extended 
further, and all the faculties of our University unite 
in holding one grand annual banquet, an event which 
would bring together in social union all the features 
of our University life — governors, professors, grad- 
uates, and students — and might even include the 
visitor himself, as well as many noteworthy person- 
ages in Canadian life, who would be far from disdain- 
ing to feast under the patronage of a great University. 
There is nothing in all this which need eliminate the 
distinctively student character of the event, although, 
even as matters now exist, a part of this feature has 
been sacrificed by incorporating representatives of 
the professoriate into some of the committees for pro- 
viding the entertainments, and no faculty gathering 
would now be deemed complete without a full repre- 
sentation of its generally much respected and 
esteemed professors. At a general banquet, 3uch as 
we advocate, a student might be elected to preside, 
and yet the meeting lose no tittle of its importance. 
In the matter of speeches the efforts of the students 
would, necessarily, be much curtailed, but it is gener- 
ally conceded that in this respect there is room for 
great improvement. A selection of one or more 
oratorical representations from each faculty would 
materially raise the standard of speaking usually 
heard on such occasions, and it must further be re- 
membered that public dinners are not, as a rule, 
schools of oratory, especially as regards practice. Of 
the importance such an event as we contemplate 
would be to Montreal, and to what degree it would 
bring forward the social character of our University 
in all parts of the country, need hardly be mentioned. 
Sufficient to say, that even though gathered exclu- 
sively within the limits of the University connection, 
such an assemblage would embrace leaders within 
almost every department of public and private life, 
and the value of such contact, though brief, to stu- 
dents and others would certainly be great. In the 
matter of facilities, such a dinner could be held in 
the finest hall in the Dominion, while, as regards ex« 



pense, there is but little reason that this last consid- 
eration should appreciably exceed that at present 
being individually incurred. We can only hope that 
the plan will commend itself to the consideration of 
all classes within the University, and its many 
points of advantage and feasibility earnestly dis- 
cussed. We can conceive of absolutely nothing 
against it ; the burden will fall equally upon all, 
the rights of every faculty will be preserved, and 
the dinner, instead of being a formal farce, will fill 
every need which these institutions are meant to sup- 
ply. The University authorities would be allowed 
an opportunity of speaking to the public, and its 
benefactors to know of the disposition of their gifts. 
If the matter is fairly presented to the students, and 
they look at the question from a broader standpoint 
than the mere pleasure of one faculty, the scheme 
cannot but succeed, and next year we hope, and feel 
assured, that this magnificent project will be carried 
out. 



A NEW SOCIETY. 

Last May the lady graduates of McGill met to- 
gether and organized a society having for its object, 
besides mutual improvement, the banding together of 
all its members, however scattered, with a common 
interest. It was then decided to communicate with 
the lady graduates of other Canadian Universities, sug- 
gesting that they also should form societies, so that 
eventually all might be united as branches of a Do- 
minion Intercollegiate Association. It was thought 
that such an association would reach the whole of a 
new and rapidly increasing class of Canadian women, 
and would in time prove a power for good in our 
country. Many of those written to have been heard 
from, and are anxious to co-operate. The Kingston 
ladies, especially, sympathize with the movement. 

McGill s branch, which has adopted the signature 
of Muiota,” will meet once a month, from October 
to June, inclusive. The subjects chosen for study 
are chiefly on current lines, and embrace many topics 
ol interest to Canadians. The first meeting is devoted 
to Canadian Natural Scientists \ another will treat of 
our writers. The politics of Canada, too, will be dis- 
cussed in three papers : “ The British North Ameri- 
can Act,” “The National Policy,” and “Provincial 
Parliaments.” The general plan of work is on a broad 

basis, and will be but little altered from year to 
year. 

Absent, as well as resident, members will contri- 
bute papers, and will receive by mail copies of all 
essays read before the society. 



1889.] 



' UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



5 



This is in reality a graduates’ society, and one 
which will be productive of much good. One of the 
most hopeful signs in connection with McGill is the 
deep interest the lady graduates are taking in her 
welfare. 



FACULTY OF APPLIED SCIENCE. 

At last McGill’s faculty of Applied Science has 
received the assistance necessary to place it on an 
equal footing with the older, better equipped, and 
better endowed, American schools. Through the 
munificence of the late Mr. Workman, this faculty 
has been endowed with $ 1 20,000, one-half to be spent 
in erecting and equipping suitable buildings, the 
balance to procure further assistance for the over- 
worked staff. This faculty has had many difficulties 
to contend against since its organization, but if suc- 
cess crowns determined effort, it was certainly assured 
to McGill’s faculty of Applied Science. The greatest 
difficulty has heretofore been the lack of accommoda- 
tion in the way of class and drawing-rooms. This 
defect was partially remedied through the kindness 
of two of our worthy governors, when the residence 
of the late secretary was converted into lecture-rooms, 
but still the mechanical department was not provided 
for. Students had to go to the C.P.R. shops for 
lectures. 

The branch that McGill should now foster is that 
of Electrical Engineering, for the larger American 
colleges all have a course in this branch. Electrical 
Engineering is likely to be the engineering of the 
future, and large numbers of Canadian young men go 
every year to these American colleges. 

We hope the day is not far distant when some of 
the many wealthy friends of McGill will see their 
way clear to place the means in its care to enable it 
to establish such a branch, and thus not only aid our 
college, but win the esteem and thanks of hundreds 
of young men who would thereby be benefited. 



MUSIC AT McGILL. 

A few enthusiasts have been working long and 
earnestly toward a better condition of affairs in musi- 
cal matters at McGill, and at times their labours have 
been attended with good results. The publication of 
the Song Book was one good step. The ladies of the 
Donalda Department then formed a Glee Club, and 
have purchased a piano from Messrs. Willis & Co. for 
an aid in their work. Another Glee Club is now in 
process of formation, with the whole University for 
a constituency, and it will do much to cultivate music 



amongst us. It should secure the services of an effi- 
cient instructor, which could be done at a small cost, 
and its success would be assured. The students of 
the Presbyterian College have a fine opportunity for 
learning the organ, from the magnificent instrument 
placed in their hall, which was also supplied by Mr. 
Willis. It has always been customary on “sports 
night” for the students to attend some place of 
amusement in a body, and from their attendance a 
large sum is realized. They should take steps to pro- 
vide for that night an entertainment of a collegiate 
character, the proceeds of which would go to swell 
the fund for some good purpose. 



We are sorry to have to report that the Ladies’ 
Lawn Tennis Club is not in a flourishing condition. 
Whether it exists at all at present is a doubtful ques- 
tion, for a body possessed of neither head nor mem- 
bers cannot be slid to have much life in it. The 
thanks of the officers (if there were any) of the dis- 
banded club, would be due to the College authorities 
for their kindness in fencing off the tennis ground. 
With every facility for playing, it is a great pity that 
this, the oldest society in the department, and the 
only one which provides for the physical relaxation 
of its students, should be allowed to sink so low, and 
it is to be hoped that those of the members who re- 
tain their old interest, may be successful in their 
attempts at reorganizing it. 



Hontributions. 

COLUMBIA COLLEGE FOR WOMEN. 

[Written for “ The Gazette.”] 

New York has always considered itself too far from 
the Hub to need spectacles and blue-stockings as a 
part of its personal adornment. While the city has 
been the home of distinguished men and women, it 
has never had the name of being an eminently literary 
centre, and has willingly recognized Boston as the 
habitat of the owl of wisdom. 

About fifteen years ago the Trustees of Columbia Col- 
lege received a petition from “ Sorosis,” the woman’s 
club of New York, to which most of the literary, art- 
istic and influential women of the city belong, asking 
them to adopt co-education at the College. The 
petition was promptly laid on the table, where it re- 
mained untouched for ten years. During this time 
higher education for women, in New York City, was 
a thing to be dreamed of, but not to be thought pos- 
sible. All young women who were not satisfied with 
the excellent collegiate courses in the larger academies 
and seminaries, prepared for Vassar or Smith or Wel- 
lesly, and left their homes for four years to return 
with their B. A’s., the admiration and envy of their 
former class-mates. 



6 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1889. 



In 1883, in response to another petition, the Trus- 
tees of Columbia, after much deliberation, passed a 
resolution to the effect that “ a course of collegiate 
study, equivalent to the course given to young men 
in the college, should be given to such women as 
desired to avail themselves of it, to be pursued under 
the direction of the faculty of the college in accor- 
dance with certain principles and regulations.” The 
practical outcome of this was that women might 
pursue the studies of the curriculum in any place and 
in any manner, except at Columbia, and twice a year 
receive the same examinations as the men. 

Two years later the Trustees passed the following 
resolutions : “ Any woman student that shall have 
pursued during four years, a course fully equivalent 
to that for which the same degree is conferred in the 
School of Arts, and shall have passed all examinations 
required, shall have conferred on her the degree of 
Bachelor of Arts, and furthermore such graduates 
may study for higher degrees under the direction of 
the Faculty and College.” 

This was an enormous concession, for few colleges 
other than co-educational, which admit women to the 
men’s examinations, give a degree. The University 
of Cambridge gives to the women of Girton and 
Newnham a certificate stating that they have passed 
the same examination as the men. Oxford does the 
same with Lady Margaret, and Somerville Hall, and 
even Harvard, so quoted as the shining example of 
tolerance to women, gives to the graduates of the 
Harvard Annex only a “ Degree Certificate,” con- 
ferred by the “ Society for the Collegiate Instruction 
of "Women.” 

All those who were interested in the woman’s 
movement realized that it was not fair, either to the 
women or to the college, to give a degree for work 
which had been done without the aid of laboratories, 
reference libraries and daily instruction by professors. 
But having obtained permission to receive the degree, 
a number of energetic men and women undertook to 
make it possible for women to earn it. 

About a year ago a memorial was presented to the 
Trustees asking approval of a plan to engage a buil- 
ding or rooms, with funds to be raised without the 
help of Columbia’s treasury, and to invite such pro- 
fessors as were willing to undertake the extra work, 
to lecture to the women. The Trustees gave their 
consent, and a place is now provided, and the Colum- 
bia Annex or Barnard College, named after the late 
President, who was much interested in the movement, 
is ready to receive students. 

This arrangement will last for four years. A num- 
ber of influential men and women have promised a 
hundred dollars a year for that time to pay tuition 
expenses, for at first a small number of students is 
expected. At the end of that time Columbia College 
will pronounce its Annex a success or a failure as the 
case may be, and a further arrangement will be made. 

About twenty-five women are now following the 
course and passing the winter and summer examina- 
tion. All are enthusiastic over the idea of the An- 
nex, and there is every probability that students will 
not be lacking if instruction is offered to them. 

The women have two privileges now offered to them, 



viz. : the use of the great library and reading room of 
the College, and the permission to meet once a month 
in Hamilton Hall and hold a Club meeting. 

The three great elms in the terrace in front of the 
school of Arts, are dotted for seven feet from the 
ground with scraps of paper, the fragmentary remains 
of notices of meetings of base-ball, rowing, literary, 
social, chess and banjo clubs, but never a word is seen 
about the “ Palladosia.” Nevertheless the young 
women who feel themselves endowed with the “ gift 
of wisdom,” have done good work during the year. 
Their topic of study has been “ Noted French Women.” 
Two essays have been presented at each meeting, and 
the time afterwards occupied with criticism and dis- 
cussion. 

So much has been done for the advancement of 
woman’s education, that it seems probable that New 
York will soon take her rank among other cities as 
one which gives a fair chance to the women. 



ftlcOill News. 



Science is taking an active interest in the Glee Club 
movement. 

Mr. T. Middleton has been appointed Instructor in 
practical construction. 

A. W. Strong, medallist for ’88-’89, is now Pi'of. of 
Civil Engineering in the University of N.B. at Fred- 
ericton. 

In the second year Murphy is President ; Smart 
and McGregor are representatives on Sports and 
Reading Room committees. 

The 2nd and 3rd years in Science have finished the 
island survey, and are now engaged making an elabo- 
rate survey of the grounds. 

There is evidently to be a smart competition for the 
Model Prize. Already there have been handed in a 
steam engine, an electro dynamo and an electric car. 

The following are the Officers of 4th year App. 
Sc.: President, Shuttleworth ; Vice, Rexford ; Sec’y., 
Mooney. Reading Loom Committee, Reed and Evans. 

The Science Faculty are elated over the munificent 
bequest of the late Mr. Workman, and expect to be 
able to put it in the front rank of institutions for the 
study of Practical Science. 

In the competition for the Mechanical Model Prize, 
offered by Mr. W. E. Gown, two competitors have 
already entered, the models being a stationary steam 
engine and an electric dynamo. 

The following exhibitions and prizes were an- 
nounced in the Science faculty at a recent corporation 
meeting : British Association Exhibition, $50.00, E. S. 
Mattice, 4th year. A special British Association prize 
to R. S. Lea, 4th year. A Scott Exhibition, $66.00, 
to E. A. Stone, 3rd year. A British Association Ex- 
hibition, $50.00, to P. H. LeRossignol, 2nd year 
The Burland Chemistry Prize to P. H. LeRossignol, 
2nd year. 



1889.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



7 



The regular meeting of the Canadian Society of 
Engineers was held Thursday evening, 24th Oct., 
when a very interesting paper on “ The Design and 
Construction of the Avon Bridge,” by Mr. R. F. 
Uniacke, Mem. Can. Soc. C.E., was read and discussed. 

This offers a splendid opportunity to students, as 
these papers are eminently practical, and are prepared 
and discussed by men of large experience. Every 
student should, if possible, attend. 

A gentleman connected with the university has un- 
dertaken for the first year to raise the sum of $250 in 
part payment of an instructor, and if the scheme be 
a success, the following year to raise an endowment 
fund of $5,000. An annual fee of $2.00 will be re- 
quired, and in return for this each student will re- 
ceive the best tuition the city can afford, both in the 
theory and practice of singing. Every student will 
be compelled to pass through the instructor’s hands, 
and have his voice classed, then scientifically trained. 



GEOLOGICAL OUTINGS. 

On Oct. 12th, about a dozen students, accompanied 
by Professor Adams, spent the morning in a critical 
examination of the Laurentian and the Siluro-Cam- 
brian systems, as exposed at Lachute. In the after- 
noon, having first availed themselves of everything 
obtainable at the Argenteuil House, the party care- 
fully inspected the Lachute paper mills. Eight o’clock 
saw them back at Dalhousie Square depot, where they 
broke up with three ringing cheers and a “ tiger ” for 
Prof. Adams. 

The following Saturday was very profitably spent 
at Point Claire, under the instructive guidance of Sir 
Wm. Dawson. At least twenty-six different fossils 
were secured. Among the discoveries was a fine speci- 
men of Gonioceras anceps. 

On the afternoon of the twenty-sixth, Prof. Adams 
promised to take charge of an expedition to examine 
the isolated exposure of the Lower Helderberg series 
at St. Helen’s Island. Crossing the river in row boats 
added zest to the enjoyment of the occasion. 



MEETING OF CORPORATION. 

The quarterly meeting of the Corporation was held 
on the 23rd instant. 

Amendments to the statutes were submitted by the 
Governors creating the new Faculty of Veterinary 
Science and Comparative Medicine. 

It was reported that the annual amount of $250 for 
three years had been raised by subscription as a 
supplement to the salary of the professor of Hebrew 
and Oriental languages. The subscribers are Mr. 
Warden King, $50; Sir J. Wm. Dawson, $50; Mr. 
Mackay, $50 ; Mr. A. T. Gault, $25 ; Mr. G. Hague, 
$25 ; Mr. T. A. Dawes, $25 ; and Mr. S. Carsley, $25. 

The regulations with regard to schools hitherto 
spoken of as affiliated for the purpose of sending up 
pupils for the rank of A. A., was amended so as to 
read that any school sending up successful candidates 
for that examination would be mentioned in the 
calendar for that year. 



Formal announcement was made of the Workman 
endowment of $117,000 for the equipment of a 
department of mechanical engineering. The money 
is to be used by setting apart $60,000 for the endow- 
ment of the chair of the professor, and the salaries of 
assistants, and $57,000 for necessary additions to the 
buildings. It is understood that the present design 
is to extend the east wing of the main building, now 
occupied by the Faculty of Applied Science, backward 
towards the reservoir; but no decision is arrived at on 
that matter ; this department is to be called by the 
name of the donor, and four scholarships are to be 
distributed each year, candidates to be nominated by 
the executors, and to pass such examinations as are 
required by the Faculty. 

The Faculty of Law reported that the regulations 
of the Council of the Bar had been so amended that 
the degree of B.A. would be acknowledged as quali- 
fying for entrance on the study of law. The hope 
was expressed that the other evils complained of 
would soon be removed. The number of students 
had increased to 19, against 12 last year. 

The Faculty of Medicine announced the largest 
number of students they had ever had, namely, 219, 
of whom 70 were in the first year, — betokening large 
promise for the future. 

The Faculty of Arts reported 284 students — 204 
men and 80 women. Of these 125 men and 41 women 
are undergraduates. About 46 are partials, taking at 
least three subjects, and some of them the full course. 

The institution of a class in elocution, under the 
direction of Mr. Andrew, was reported, the fee being 
$2.50. 

In Applied Science the number of students was 
reported as 71. The appointment of Mr. T. Middleton 
has been made as instructor in practical construction. 
The donation of a storage battery, value $400, from 
Mrs. Redpath, was reported, and the thanks of the 
corporation directed to be conveyed to her. 

The Library committee reported the number of 
volumes to be 28,359 ; the number of readers of books, 
1,333 ; and additions by gift and purchase. Com- 
plaint was made of the limited accommodation for 
books and readers. 

The report of the Museum committee referred to 
improvement of the heating apparatus, and also to 
the gift of $1,000 for general expenses by Mr. P. 
Redpath, and $1,000 for salary of assistant curator by 
Mrs. J. H. R. Molson. 

Dr. Robins, principal of the Normal school, reported 
85 students entered, the appointment of Miss Greene 
as associate professor of drawing, and of Mr. Smiley 
as head master of the Model school, and Mr. W. H. 
Smith as instructor in the tonic-sol-fa system ; also, 
that Dr. Reed had undertaken the lectures in chemis- 
try ; that important additions had been made to the 
library apparatus, and that application had been made 
to the Government for repairs and improvements to 
building and play ground. 

Progress was reported in the preparation of an im- 
proved list of graduates for the triennial calendar, and 
it was suggested that, if possible, the additional titles 
and offices of graduates should be inserted with their 
names. An effort will be made to secure this. 



8 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1889. 



FEATHERS FROM THE EAST WING. 

The trio of honor students who so gracefully filled 
the position of seniors last year, is replaced three- 
fold by the nine members of the ’90 class. They can- 
not thus be said to have left an aching void behind 
them, yet the Donalda Department will seem, until 
the press of College work becomes too engrossing for 
sentiment, a little less bright for their absence. One 
only of the three remains to cheer it with her pres- 
ence, a would-be disciple of iEsculapius, who is to be 
seen in the vicinity of the Freshmen class room, ex- 
tending a graduates’ hand of assistance to some youth- 
ful students who appeared to be struggling with the 
intricacies of Greek syntax. Yet, though there is 
sorrow felt for their loss, there is pleasure also in the 
knowledge that the Donalda class of ’89 will always 
be looked to with feelings of respect and affection. 
Their President is far across the seas, but the remem- 
brance of her hearty public spiritedness remains as an 
example worthy of the imitation of all who come 
after her, and the record on the prize lists of the new 
calendar is one which makes us proud of the names 
that ’89 has seen added to the honorable though brief 
record of McGill’s lady B.A.’s. 

Already 40 undergraduates are registered, showing 
an increase of 4 over last year. The lists of the 
Partial and Occasional Students are not yet made up. 
There are 9 ladies in the 4th year, 7 in the 3rd, 14 
in the 2nd, and 10 in the 1st. The Freshman class 
bids fair to rival preceding years in intellectual 
achievements as well as in numbers. It is headed by 
Miss Fairclough, of Hamilton, Ont., who has won the 
Jane Redpath Exhibition of $100, and stands first 
among the competitors. Miss Fairclough is the first 
to enter for this, the only exhibition open to women 
at McGill, and is entitled to the heartiest congratula- 
tions of her fellow-students, together with their best 
wishes for her future success in the course she has so 
honorably begun. It is unfortunate that there should 
be no exhibition open at the entrance to the later 
years for which the young lady might hope to com- 
pete. Many changes, however, come about in a few 
months’ time, and we can only exhort her to hope for 
the best. 

The new calendar has a stringent regulation in it 
regarding the examinations for Partial Students, which 
is creating some consternation among several of the 
would-be Donaldas. 

The different years have elected their officers as 
follows : — 



4th Year. 



President 

Vice-President. , . 

Secretary 

Class Historian . . , 




..Miss Botterell. 

. . “ Binmore. 

.. “ Macfarlane. 

.. “ Inez Botterell. 


President 

Secretary 


3rd Year. 


. . Miss Smith. 
.. “ Moffat. 


President 

Vice-President. . . 
Secretary 


2nd Year. 


. . Miss Pitcher. 
. . “ Raynes. 

. . “ Angus. 


President 

Secretary 


1st Year. 


..Miss Fairclough. 

. . “ Le Rossignol. 



Miss Clara Davidson, formerly Arts ’90, has en- 
tered the class of Arts ’92. 

On Friday morning (the 18th) the Gymnasium was 
the scene of quite a display of athletic power on the 
part of the Donalda class. After the regular work was 
over, the “sisters” — possibly with a view to sharpening 
their powers of appreciation of the University sports, 
indulged in a frolicsome trial of skill. Rings, trapezes, 
and ladders were attacked with a courage that stopped 
at the performance of no acrobatic feat, however diffi- 
cult or hazardous. Finally, the big swing was lowered, 
and all — practised gymnasts and new comers — crowd- 
ed on, and enjoyed the fun together. The unilorms 
adopted are very pretty' — red blouses with black 
velveteen skirts — and the sight the Gymnasium affords 
every Wednesday and Friday morning bears witness 
to the fact that the physical do not lag behind the 
mental powers of the lady students. The class is at 
present small, numbering 16, and it is to be hoped 
that in the course of time many more will see the 
necessity of benefiting by this most necessary course. 

The Geological excursions have been well attended 
up to date, and have been thoroughly enjoyed by the 
lady students of the 4th year. The Quarries, the 
Mountain, Pointe Claire, and Lachute have been 
visited. 



A piano has been rented from Willis on very ad- 
vantageous terms, humours are afloat to the effect 
that the energetic committee of the Glee Club are 
endeavouring to arrange for its purchase in the course 
of time. 



A hygienic innovation in the class-rooms of the 
East Wing, in the form of mysterious-looking shutters, 
which, on investigation, prove to be ventilators, is to 
be commended, as having been much needed. 



At a meeting of all the students of the Donalda 
Department, held on Monday, Sept. 30th, the follow- 
ing officers were appointed for the coming year: — 



Reading-Room. 



President. 
Secretary . , 

Committee 



..Miss H. I. R. Botterell, ’90. 
. . Miss Hall, ’91 
( Miss Finley. 

< Miss Raynes, ’93. 

( Miss Reay, ’93. 



Glee Club. 



Business Manager 



Committee 



Editor for Ladies’ Dept, of McGill 

Gazette. 

Asst. Editor 



Miss Binmore, ’90. 
Miss Moflatt, ’91. 

Miss Millar ’93. 

Miss Ross ’92. 

Miss Reay, ’93. 

| Miss Abbott, ’90. 

. Miss G. L. Smith, ’91 . 



“ Gentlemen of the jury,” said an Irish barrister, 
“ R w iH be for you to say whether this defendant shall 
be allowed to come into court with unblushing foot- 
steps, with the cloak of hypocrisy in his mouth, and 
draw three bullocks out of my client’s pocket with im- 
punity !” This may be called a bull. 



1889.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



9 



Poetry. 



VILIKINS AND HIS DINA. 

The following Latin version of the above-mentioned 
song, made famous by the genius of Robson, was 
written by me, in order to prove to a friend that 
almost any English trash can be translated into Latin 
verse by a practised hand. Mr. G. A. Sala considers 
that the song of “ Vilikins and his Dina” is contem- 
porary with, if not anterior to, Shakespeare’s age : — 

In London’s fair city a merchant did dwell, 

He had but one daughter, an unkiramon nice young gal ; 

Her name it were Dina — just sixteen years old — 

With a very large portion of silver and gold. 

As Dina was a-walking in the gardin one day. 

Her papa he came to her, and thus he did say 
“ Go, dress yourself, Dina, in gorgeous array, 

For I’ve got you an ’usband, both galliant and gay.” 

11 Oh, papa, oh, papa 1 I’ve not made up my mind, 

And to marry just yet I am not quite inclin’d ; 

And all my large fortin I’ll gladly give o’er. 

If you’ll let me be single just one year or more V 

“ Go, go, boldest daughter,” the parient replied, 

" If you won’t consent for to be this man’s bride, 

I’ll give all your fortin to the nearest of kin, 

And you shan’t reap the benefit of one single pin ” 

As Vilikins vas a-valkin in the garden one day, 

He spied his dear Dina lying dead on the clay— 

And a cup of cold pison was a-lying by her side, 

And a billet-dux to say that for Vilikins she died ! 

He kiss’d her cold corpus a thousand times o’er; 

He call’d her his Dina, though she were no more ; 

And swallowed the pison like a lover so brave. 

And Vilikins and his Dina lie buried in one grave. 



Hall, which was largely attended, many of the friends 
of the University manifesting their interest in our 
work by being present. Among the items of interest 
of the evening were addresses by the president, Mr. 
D. J. Evans, 4th year Medicine, and Dr. Kelly, of 
the Montreal High School. 

Under the auspices of the society, two regular 
working meetings are held, the first on Sunday after- 
noon, from 4.30 to 5. L5. The chair is taken by the 
president, and an interesting address is given each 
Sunday, either by one of the students or some inter- 
ested friend. Among those who have given us their 
assistance in this way in the past may be mentioned 
Sir Wm. Dawson, Dr. Kelly, Dr. Barbour, and Dr. 
Shaw. 

The second meeting is a prayer meeting, held every 
Tuesday evening, from 7 to 7.30, beginning and end- 
ing sharp on time. 

All students are cordially invited, both meetings 
being pleasant and profitable. - 

The officers for the year are : — 



Hon. President Sir Wm. Dawson. 

President D. J. Evans, 4th Year Med. 

1st Vice-President W. H. Garth, B.A. 

2nd “ “ W. S. Morrow, 3rd “ 

Cor. Sec’y H. M. Tory, 4th Year Arts. 

Rec. Sec’y A. H. Hawkins, “ Science. 

Treasurer Jas. Daley, “ Arts. 



Ass’t. -Treasurer W. F. Hamilton, 3rd Year Med. 



IDEM LATINE REDDITUM. 



UNDERGRADUATES’ LITERARY SOCIETY. 



Res bene Londini quondam mercator agebat, 

Unica cui proles, grata puella, fuit. 

Dina bis octonos vixdum compleverat annos, 

Pondus ob argenti grande pelita sui. 

Forte vagabatur fragrantem Dina per hortum, 

Quum pater ingratos edidit ore sonos 

“ Vade age — sic jubeo— regales indue vestes — 

Te manet egregius, Dina beata, procus.” 

“ 0 pater, alme pater! mea mens incerta vacillat, 

Nee cupio, thalami nescia, ferre juguin. 

Divitias, quantae mihi sint, tibi laeta resigno, 

Dummodo ne cogar me sociare viro.” 

“ At cave,” respondit pater, “audaoissima virgo ! 

Nec mora— tu conjux conjugis hujus eris ; 

Sin minus — argento potietur proximus haeres, 

Nec fuerit vili te penes asse frui.” 

Forte pererrabat juvenis Vilikinsius hortum, 

Tempore quo morieus Dina jacebat humi : 

Cernitur atra calix, gelido commixta veneno, 

Chartaque, virgineus qua patet omnis amor. 

Oscula morte rigens accepit mille puella, 

Mortua, sed quamvis mortua, Dina tamen ! 

Turn bibit impavido Vilikinsius ore venenum, 

Fidaque cum fido Dina sepulta jacet. 

Montreal. Geo. Murray. 



Societies. 



UNIVERSITY Y.M.C.A. 

The attention of all the students is called to what 
is now one of the largest and most influential societies 
of our college, viz., the University Y.M.C.A. As has 
been the custom for several years past, at the begin- 
ning of the session of ’89-’90 a reception was given 
by the society to incoming students, in the Molson 



The opening meeting of this society was held on 
the evening of the 27th of September, when the 
following officers were elected for the ensuing 
session : — 



President 

1st Vice-President 

2nd Vice-President 

Treasurer 

Secretary 

Assistant-Secretary 



Special Committee 



...Peers Davidson. 
...A. E. Harvey. 

...W. J. LeRossignol. 
...A. E. Shuttleworth. 
...Wm. Oliver. 

...A. B. Wood, 
f S. W. Mack 
I S. Calvert. 

G. Craik. 

R. G. Davey. 
v Chas. Mansur. 



The Secretary reported that the society’s petition 
to the Faculty of Arts, requesting that the choice of 
subjects for debates be left at the discretion of the 
undergraduates, had been refused. Notice of motion 
was then given, that said petition be presented to the 
Corporation at the earliest opportunity. 

The next regular meeting of the society was held 
on the evening of October 12th, one week later than 
usual, owing to the Y.M.C.A.’s reception to the Fresh- 
men on the preceding Friday. The 1st Vice-Presi- 
dent, A. E. Harvey, occupied the chair. R. Mc- 
Dougall and W. J. LeRossignol were appointed to 
confer with the Presbyterian College Literary Society 
for the purpose of holding an inter-collegiate debate. 

Mr. A. R. Hall having been appointed critic, the 



10 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1889. 



following programme was carried out : — Essay, “ The 
Study ot Philology,” by R. McDougall ; reading, by 
Mr. Honeyman ; song, by H. M. Kinghorn ; debate, 
“ Resolved, that the Canadian Senjte should be made 
Elective.” The speakers on the affirmative were 
Messrs. Shuttleworth, LeRossignol, and Kollmyer ; 
on the negative, Messrs. Harvey, Warne (J. F.), and 
Taylor. A majority of one decided the question in 
favor of the negative. 

The third regular meeting of the society was held 
on the evening of the 25th, 2nd Vice-President, W. 
J. LeRossignol, in the chair. The fiist item on the 
programme was an essay, entitled, “ Education in 
Japan,” by S. Winfred Mack. Then followed a read- 
ies by E. W. Archibald. The subject of debate was, 
“ Resolved, that Inventions Improve the Condition 
of the Laboring Classes.” Affirmative, Messrs. David- 
son and Reeves ; negative, Messrs. Hall (A. R.), Ross, 
and Carmichael. Decision was given in favor of the 
affirmative. The duties of critic were discharged by 
J. M. McGregor. 



GLEE CLUB. 

The Glee Club has held two meetings. The com- 
mittee is an energetic one, and will, it is fondly hoped, 
place the Society on a firmer footing than it has been 
heretofore. 

The song book chosen by the members is The Yale 
and Harvard Collection. 



The Reading Room Committee have elected the 
following officers for the ensuing session : President, 
Chester Reed; Vice-President, S. W. Mack; Secre- 
tary, J. A. Cameron; Treasurer, W. R. Ellen wood. 
The financial report shows that between ten and eleven 
dollars was left over from last year. The substitution 
of the “ North American Review ” for “ Littell’s Liv- 
ing Age,” and the addition of the “ Cosmopolitan,” 
have been the only changes in the already numerous 
and well assorted list of periodicals. What is the mat- 
ter with the first year in Arts ? So far, only three of 
their number have handed in subscriptions. 

The members of the committee desire to call the at- 
tention of the students to this much violated regula- 
tion : “ No meeting shall be held in the Reading 

Room, save from one to half-past one o’clock, without 
the permission of the committee.” Further violations 
of the above rule will be brought under the notice of 
the Faculty. 



DELTA SIGMA SOCIETY. 

The annual business meeting of the Delta Sigma was 
held on Thursday, Oct. 3rd. Miss Botterell, vice- 
president, opened the meeting with a few words of 
welcome to the new-comers. She also extended a spe- 
cial greeting to Miss Ritchie, B.A., ’88, honorary mem- 
ber and ex president of the Society, and called upon 
her to take the chair. The annual report was read by 
Miss Smith, the retiring secretary. It mentioned as 
improvements during the past year, the institution of 



a Critic at the prepared Debates, and the drawing of 
the subjects of both debates and essays from a common 
source, (the Renaissance). While recommending the 
general plan thus adopted, the Secretary intimated 
that the subjects chosen had been found somewhat 
weighty for a Society, one of whose objects was the 
relaxation of its members. The membership roll num- 
bered 48, with an average attendance of 28. 

Taking the Constitution as her text, Miss Ritchie 
addressed the Society from the chair. She explained 
the origin and object of the Delta Sigma, and the func- 
tions of its several officers, and impressed on her hearers 
their duties as members and as possible office-holders. 
Her speech was received with enthusiasm. 

There was some excitement over the election of of- 
ficers, which took place as follows : — 



President 

Vice-President 

Secretary-Treasurer 

Assistant-Secretary 



Commitee . . . 



. . Miss Derick. 

“ Smith. 

. . “ Pitcher. 

. . “ Fairclough. 

Miss Hall. 

“ Abbott. 

“ H. I. R. Botterell. 

“ Rea y. 

“ Monk. 



The first regular meeting of the Delta Sigma Society 
was held on Thursday, Oct. 15th. Miss Abbott read 
a thoughtful and very interesting essay, the subject 
of which was — “ The Painting of the Renaissance, its 
Principles, and immediate Inspiration.” This was 
followed by a stirring impromptu debate — “ Resolved 
that friendship has it basis in selfishness.” The affirm- 
ative was supported by Misses Binmore, Campbell and 
McCoy, and the negative by Misses Williams, Monk 
and Radford. The vote was taken and showed the 
majority in favor of the affirmative. 



THEO DORA SOCIETY. 

The annual business meeting of the Theo Dora 
Society was held on Thursday, September 26th, Miss 
Derick in the chair. 

After hearing the minutes of the last meeting, held 
on April 29th, and the constitution, nine new mem- 
bers were enrolled. The annual report was then read 
by the Secretary. It showed that during the past 
year marked progress had been made, which had placed 
tho Iheo Doia, in point of influonco and popularity, 
on a level with every other society in the department! 
This progress, the report truly said, being due, 
humanly speaking, to the untiring energy and de- 
votedness of its originator and retiring President, Miss 
Derick. The roll of membership had numbered 33 
with an average attendance of 22. 

Miss Derick formally resigned the position of Pre- 
sident which she had held for the two years of the 
Society’s existence, expressing herself as feelin" that 
in so doing, she was acting for its best interests? Her 
resignation was received with sincere regret by most 

of those present, for feeling ran strong for a re- 
election. 



1889.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



11 



Mi88 Derick then attempted to leave the chair, hut 
was borne hack to it on a wave of enthusiasm until 
the election of officers had taken place. 

The list stands as follows : 



Committee , ■* 



President , Miss Williams, ’90. 

(Elected unanimously.) 
Vice-President, Miss Moffatt, ’91. 

Secretary, Miss MacDonald, ’92. 

' Miss Derick, ’90. 

Miss Pattison, ’91. 

Miss Ross, ’92. 

Miss Millar, ’93. 

The first regular mooting of the Theo Dora was held 
on Oct. 10th, Miss Williams, President, in the chair. 
The minutes of the last meeting recorded a communi- 
cation inviting the Theo Dora to join the Intercollegiate 
Missionary Alliance. It was resolved that the Society 
join this Alliance. Readings were given by Miss 
Scott and Miss Moffatt, and an interesting essay on 
“ North American Missions ” was read by Miss Hen- 
derson. A sacred solo from Miss Millar formed an 
agreeable variation from the usual programme. It was 
proposed by Miss Henderson, and carried, that at the 
regular meetings of the Society, those of the members 
who were willing should employ themselves in needle- 
work for charitable purposes. 



Sporting. 



The annual sports of the McGill U. A. A. took place 
Friday, the 18th October, commencing at 9.30 a.m. 

The day dawned cloudy, but the rain favored us for 
once, and success crowned every effort, from kicking 
the football to getting home from the Academy. 

The field officers were : — 

Referee — W. Sutherland, M.D. 

Time-keepers — C. H. McLeod, Ma. E.; James Bell, 
M.D.; P. T. Lafleur, M.A. 

Judges at Finish — C. E. Moyse, B.A.; T. W. Mills, 
M.A., M.D.; A. McGoun, B.A., B.C.L. 

Starter — R. F. Ruttan, B.A., M.D. 

Clerk and Assistant-Clerk of Course — H. D. Hamil- 
ton, B.A., and E. Irving. 

Measurers — E. S. Mattice and W. G. Smart. 

Scorers — H. M. Kinghorn and E. Irving. 

Judge of Walking— F. G. Finley, B.A., M.D.. 

The events were all well contested. 

Connolly again won the hurdle race, thus securing 
Prof. Bovey’s cup. — The ladies, as usual, honored the 
occasion in large numbers in the afternoon. 

The prizes were distributed in the Molson Hall by 
Mrs. J. H. R. Molson, amid the usual contributions 
from the rear of the hall. 

Besides the winners of the events for 1889, we also 
give a list of winners of the various competitions since 
and including 1883, which has been evolved from old 
fyles by infinite pains. 

Kicking football : Hy. V. Russell, 1st ; H. P. Yates, 2nd ; dis- 
tance 150 ft. 1883— Haythorn, 144 ft. 7 l-5th in. 18^4 — 
Robertson, 160 ft. 1885 — Robertson, 135 ft. 10 in. 1886 — 
Warden, 138 ft. 8 in. 1887— J. H. Dunlop, 143 ft. 1888— 
J. M. Hughes, 123 ft. 



Throwing hammer, (16 lbs ) : M. McL. Martin, 1st, 67 ft. 4 in.; 
J. Henderson, 2nd, 62 ft. 10 in. 1883 — Walker 75 ft, 7£ in. 
1884 — Trenholm, 69 ft. 1 in. 1885 — Haentschell, 60 ft. 1 in. 

1886 — Bowen, 65 ft. 5 in. 1887 — McEwen, 65 ft. 1 in. 1888 — 
Martin, 67 ft. 5 in. 

Running broad jump : J. D. Cameron, 1st, 16 ft. 8 in. ; H. M. 
Kinghorn, 2nd, 16 ft. 1 in. 1883 — McFarlane, 16 ft. 8 in. 1884 
— Lesage, 18 ft. 2 in. 1885- Boyd, 16ft. 10J in. 1886 — No 
entry. 1887 — Moore, 17 ft. 2f in. 1888 — Hughes, 18 ft. 

Putting shot : M.W. Murray, 1st, 31 ft. 10 in.; Watson, 2nd, 
30 feet 2 in. 1883 - Trenholm, 32 feet 7 in. 1884 — Treuholm, 
32 ft. \ in. 1885 —M- Gannon, 28 ft. 7\ in. 1886— Smith, 29 
ft. 4£ in. 1887 — Murray, 30 ft. ll|in. 1888 — Murray, 32 ft. 
H in. 

Throwing cricket ball : Ault, 1st, 106 yds. 5J in.; Manser, 
2nd, 84 yds. 2 in. 1883 — Klock, 93 yds. 1884— Lesage, 92 
yds. 1 ft. 1885 — Sullivan, 95 yds. 4 in. 1886 — Brown, 94 yds. 

10 in. 18&7— Kenney, 93 yds. 10J in. 1888— Ault, 108 yds. 

11 in. 

Standing broad jump : Kirby, 1st, 9 ft. f in.; McKenzie, 2nd, 

8 feet 10J in. 1883 — No entry. 1884 —No entry. 1885 — 
Pomeroy, 9 ft. 6£ in. 1886 — Pringle, 9 ft. 11£ in. 1887 — 
Rogers, 8 ft. 4| in. 1888— McKenzie, 8 ft. Ilf in. 

Throwing heavy weight : Henderson, 1st, 18 ft. 8f in.; Mur- 
ray, 2nd, 18 It. 1£ in. 1883 — Church, 19 ft. 5 in. 1884 — 

Haentschell, 19ft. 2^ in. 1886 — McEwen, 19 It. 2 in. 1887 — 
Haentschell, 20 ft. 4| in. 1888— Murray, 18 ft. 5^ in. 

High jump: McKenzie, 1st; Connolly, 2nd. 1883— Klock, 

4 ft. 8 in. 1884— Springle, 4 ft. 10 in. 1885 — Boyd, 4 ft. 11 
in. 1886 — Connolly, 4 ft. in. 18o7 — McKenzie, 4 ft. 11 in. 
1888— McKenzie, 5 ft. 11£ in. 

440-yards run : Hall, 1st ; Byers, 2nd ; time 58f sec. 1883 
— Hutchison, 59 sec. 1884 — Kennedy, 59 sec. 1886 — Ham- 

ilton, 60 l-5th sec. 1887 — Brown, 57 l-5th sec. 1888 — 
Hughes, 55f sec. 

Pole leap : Harrison, 8 ft. 10 in. (Record) ; Akerly, 8 ft. 2 in 
1883 — No entry. lo84 — No entry. 1885 — Robertson, 8 ft. 9 

in. 1886 — No entry. 1887 — Harrison, 8 ft. 6£ in. 1888 — 

Harrison, 8 ft. 

100-yards run : Gridlestone, 1st ; Irving, 2nd ; time 10| sec. 
1883 — Clerk, 11| sec. 1884 — Lesage lOf sec. 1885 — Kennedy, 
10 2- 5th sec. 1886— Hopkins, 11 2-5th sec. 1*87— Walsh, 

11£ sec. 1888 — Hughes. 

One-mile run : Morrow, 1st ; Hall, sec ; time 5 min. 27 sec. 
1883 — McTaggart, 4 miu. 54£sec. 1884 — (open) Moffat, 4 min. 
40 sec. 18&5— (open) Moffat, 4 min. 40 sec. ; Haentschell, 5 
min. 6 sec. Is86 —Johnson, 5 min. 9 sec. 1887 — Haentschell, 

5 min 3£ sec. I808 — Morrow, 5 min. 1 sec. 

Hurdle race: Connolly, 1st ; McKenzie, 2nd ; time 19g sec. 
No time given previous to 1887. 1887 — Connolly, 19£ sec. 1888 
— Hughes 20f sec. 

Bicycle race : Williams, 1st ; Ramsay, 2nd ; time 3 min. 21| 
sec. (Record). 1^83 — Holden, 4£ min. 1884 — Holden, 3 min. 
58^ sec. 1885 — Guy, 3 min. 33£ sec. 1886 — Holden, 3 min. 
28 sec. 1887 — Ramsay, 3 min. 22£ sec. 1888 — Ramsay, 3 min. 
34| sec. 

880-yards run : Morrow, 1st ; time, 2 min. 15J sec. 1883 — 
McTaggart, 2 min. 7 sec. 1884 — Haentschell. 2 min. 47£ sec. 
1885 — 2 min. 14f sec. 1886 — Brown, 2 min. 22 l-5th sec. 

1887 — Haentschell, 2 min. 17£ sec. 1888 — Lamb, 2 min. 18 
sec. 

Three-legged race : Mathewson and Pink, 1st ; Mattice and 
Russell, 2nd. lo33— No race. 1884 — Corsaw and May. 1885 
— May and Aylen. 1886 — May and Palmer. 1887— No entry 

1888 — Hughes and Moore. 

One-mile walk : White 1st ; Ramsay, 2nd ; Corwin, 3rd ; time. 

9 min. 57 sec. 1883 — (2 miles) Smith, 17 min. 58| sec. 1884 

— Arthur, 8 min. 47J sec. 1885— 8wabey, 8 min. 15 sec. 1886 
—Carmichael, 9 min. 15 sec. 1887 — White, 8 min. 58 sec. 

1888 — White, 8 min. 55 sec. 



12 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1889. 



220-yards run : Smith, 1st ; Irving. 2nd ; time, 25^ sec. 1883 
(open) Thompson, 23| sec.; Clerk, 24 J sec. 1884 — Lesage, 25§ 
sec. 1885 — Weir, 25 3-5tli sec. 1886 — Hopkins, 25^ sec. 

1887 — Hopkins, 25| sec. 1888 — Jamieson, 25J sec. 

Tug-of-war : Arts vs. Yets., won by Yets. Vets. vs. Meds., 
won by Meds. 



The annual athletic sports of University College, 
Toronto, took place Friday, the 25th October. The 
weather was rather unpleasant, rain falling from time 
to time. The field officers were: Wm. O’Connor, 
time-keeper; Jas. Pearson, starter. Judges: Prof. 
Pike, Dr. Ellis and Mr. M. S. Mercer, B.A. 

The championship medal, offered for the greatest 
number of points secured, was awarded to Mr. W. H. 
Mulligan. 

The winners in the different contests were as fol- 
lows : — 

Putting the shot — R. S. Strath, 33 ft. 8£ in. 

Running broad jump— D. P. McColl, 19 ft. 7 in. 

Throwing baseball -H. C. Pope, 116 yds. 2 ft. 9 in. 

220-yards run— W. H. Mulligan, 23 2-5th sec. 

Fatigue race, (the runner to carry his partner 75 yards and 
return) — McLean and Davidson, 32 l-5th sec. 

One-mile run— W. C. Mitchell, 5 min. 9^ sec. 

100-yards run — W. H. Mulligan, 10 2-3rdsec. ; D. P. McColl, 
2nd. 

Running high jump— A. Gaudier (Queen’s), 5 ft. 2 in. 

120-yards Hurdle race - D. P. McColl, 21 sec. 

440-yards run — W. H. Mfilligan, 54^ sec. 

880-yards run — W. H. Mulligan, 2 min. 17 sec. 

880-yards run — (members of K Co., Q.O.R., in heavy march- 
ing order)— private J. Malloch, 3 min 5 sec. 

440-yards run (open) — J. J. Moore, Bayside Rowing Club, 57 £ 
sec. 

The events were all closely contested, and in most 
of the events McGill’s record is behind; we would ad- 
vise our athletic friends to look to this another year. 



FOOTBALL. 

Graduates vs. Undergraduates. 

The annual match, “ Grads, vs. Undergrads.,” took 
place on the 10th inst. The Graduates only suc- 
ceeded in mustering thirteen, while their juniors had 
their full complement of fifteen, as follows : — 



Undergraduates. Position. 



Graham ) . ( 


Mathewson 




Backs, j • 


Bowie 

Smart 

Webster (Capt.).. , 

Webster 

Bifoid 




Whvte 


• 


> i 


McMillan 

Halliday 

Yates 

Kinghorn 


}- Forwards. -{ 


Walsh 

Jento 




Richards 

Mattice 







Graduates. 

. ...A. Monk 
. . . . R. Henderson 
. . . . E. H. Hamilton 
. . . . H. A. Budden 



. . Dunlop 
.J. Naismith 
• C. J. Claxton 
. W. G. Kingston 
. A. W. Smith 
. Walsh 
. McDougall 
. Smith 



The Grads, kicked off and made a gallant rush, 
and for the greater part of the first half had the ad- 



vantage, securing a safety touch. The Undergrads, 
then began to push matters, and finally the ball was 
kicked behind the Graduates’ goal ; Monk fell upon 
it, but did not bring it to rest, and Jento secured a 
touch for the Undergrads. The try was a failure 
When play was resumed, the Undergrads, began to 
push their seniors ; but the Grads, showed that they 
still knew how to hold their own, and to kick even 
against the decisions of the referee, which is another 
illustration of McGill men’s “nerve.” The students 
obtained a touch in goal, and just before “ time” 
Walsh secured the ball, aod made the run of the day, 
and secured a try; but the kick failed. 

For the Graduates, Naismith, Clayton, and King- 
ston played well in the scrimmage, while A. W. Smith 
and Walsh proved themselves to be model wing 
men, from whom the students can well afford to 
learn. 



Montreal 2nd Fifteen vs. McGill. 

At 3.30 on Saturday afternoon, 19th Oct., these two 
teams lined out, as under, to play their match in the 
first round of the intermediate championship ties : — 



Montreal. 




McGill. 


D. C. S. Miller (capt.) . 






J. Miller 




. .W. Kinghom (capt.) 


C. Lawford 


<< 




J. Robertson 






B. Wand 


. . Quarter back . . 


Waller 


Jamieson 




Hall 


Fiddler 






McDonald 


it 




Reynolds 


it 




V. Buchanan 




Walker 


H. Higginson 


it 


T . . . . Carroll 


E. James 


a 




C. Benedict 


it 




H. Rrown 


a 




A. Refold 


it 





Referee — W. E. Stevenson. 

McGill having won the toss, Montreal kicked off 
and at once began to show their superiority in team 
play and head work, as with the exception of the last 
five minutes of the first three-quarters, the ball was all 
the time in the McGill 25. The students worked 
hard, but owing to their lack of any sort of combination 
their efforts went for nothing, and the first three- 
quarters closed with the score of 33 points against 
them. Of this total for Montreal, J. Miller, H. Hig- 
ginson, Buchanan and Wand secured tries, and J. Mil- 
ler kicked a beautiful goal from the field. The second 
three-quarters saw the students playing better together. 
I hey had a couple of narrow shaves from scoring, but 
Montreal’s good team play told and secured 1 6 more 
points, making the total score 49-0. For Montreal, 
Robinson, Benedict, and Jamieson secured tries. For 
McGill, among the forwards Whyte, Rogers, Marson, 
and Mattice worked hard, and for the back division, 
Walker at quarter and Morrison and Ivinghorn at 
half, played a plucky up-hill game. 



Britannia vs. McGill. 

1 he first match of the senior schedule was played 
on the College grounds on Saturday, Oct. 19 th, between 



1889.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



13 



the Britannias and McGills, resulting in a victory for 
the Britannias by eleven points to four. The McGill 
captain lodged a protest on the ground that play was 
continued iur tour minutes over time, and that the 
crowd were allowed to get upon the ground. 

It was not until halt an hour past the appointed 
time that the two teams appeared on the field and lined 
out as follows : — 

Brits. Position. McGill. 

A. Ross Back Hamilton 

Baker Half back Graham 

Boss “ Robertson 

Morton “ Smart 

Stevenson Quarter back Mulligan 

Bruce W ings McDougall 

Smith “ Bowie 

Hamilton “ Walsh 

Patterson “ Webster 

Y oung Forwards Rexford 

Murphy “ Yates 

Cameron “ Holliday 

Thomson “ Smith 

Lowe “ McMullen 

Referee — E. Black. 

From the beginning the superior weight of the Bri- 
tannias told in the scrimmages, but up to half time 
McGill held her own in points, and the score stood at 
Brits 3, McGill 4. The second half was one succes- 
sion of scrimmages, varied by safety touches on each 
side. In this the Britannias had the advantage, and 
when time was called they were victors by 11 points 
to 4. For the College, Hamilton played a fine game 
in goal, and for the Britannias, Ross and Morton de- 
serve especial notice. 



Montreal 3rd vs. McGill 3rd. 

The schedule match between these teams was played 
on the McGill grounds, Saturday afternoon, the 26th 
Oct., and resulted in a victory for the College team 
by a score of 8 to 10. 

When play was called by referee Warden and the 
players lined out, it would have been hard to decide 
which side appeared to have the advantage, and it had 
no sooner started than spectators decided they were to 
be treated to a good game. Our boys seemed to have 
rather the best of the play all through, their scrimmage 
was better organized, their wings quicker, and the 
quarters and halves seemed to be surer. 

For the collegians Smaill played magnificently, 
while Paton, Rutherford, Donohoe, McDougall, Ross, 
Mathewson and Hamilton were not to be passed, 
Paton’s tackling deserving special mention. 

For the Montrealers, Wonham, McMillan, Fry and 
McKenzie held their own every time, but they did not 
receive the necessary assistance to win. 

This makes the third consecutive match won by the 
college 3rd, and gives them the championship for ’89. 

Surely McGill’s glory in football is again beginning 
to dawn. 

Arts vs. Science. 

The first of the interfaculty series of matches was 
played on the College grounds between representatives 

of Arts and Science. 



The weather was all that could be desired, but the 
playing was exceedingly slow and ragged, and men 
who should have done well seemed useless. For Arts 
Kinghorn, Fry, Mathewson and Donohoe carried off 
the honors, while for science Calvert at back could not 
be passed. Russell and Smart were very sure and ef- 
fective, while Smaill always seemed to bo “on it.” 
Science secured a safety touch early in the game, 
and a few minutes later, Smart a touch down, by a 
splendid run, which Russell converted into a goal by 
a magnificent kick. There was no further scoring, but 
Arts seemed to waken up towards the end, and appar- 
ently had the best of it ; however, at time the score 
stood 9 to 0 in favor of Science. 

J. II. Dunlop officiated as referee. 



McGill 3rd vs. Victoria 2nd. 

The first match in the senior series resulted in a vie 
tory for the University 3rd team, after a very rough 
tackling game, by 19 to 9. The college men went off 
with a rush, and inside of five minutes had scored ten 
points. The Victorias then woke up in earnest, and 
before half time they had almost evened the score by 
securing a goal and a rouge. In the second half neither 
side secured any advantage until close to time being 
called, when McGill ran the ball well down to the 
Victoria goal line. Clark, the Vies’ goal-keeper, had 
dislocated his knee early in the afternoon, and was 
thus unable to go after the ball ; before he could reach 
it, the McGill forwards had secured a try, which they 
converted into a goal. This they followed with a 
rouge, and thus won the match by 19 points to 9. 



Personals. 



Smaill, Science, ’90, was assistant to Mr. Low, on 
the Geological Survey. 

A. E. Childs, Science, ’88, is prosecuting his elec- 
trical studies in England. 

Lea, Science, ’90, spent the summer in Boston with 
a firm of Hydraulic Engineers. 

R. Johnston, B.A , ’87, has been appointed to the 
charge of a church in Lindsay, Ont. 

J. P. Ball, Science, ’87, is on the engineering staff 
of the Placentia Railway, Newfoundland. 

Mattice, Science, ’90, was engaged as Constructing 
Engineer on the Cornwall Canal Improvements. 

Reed, Science, ’90, was employed between Port 
Hope and Belleville on the G.T.R. double track. 

Lochhead, B.A., is Science Master in Galt, Ont., 
Collegiate Institute, and has taken to himself a wife. 

P. L. Naismith, B.A., Science, ’89, is surveying a 
railroad lino in Cape Breton, in connection with coal 
mines. 

W. A. Cameron, B.A., ’86, an old friend of The 
Gazette, sends us a friendly greeting from Barrie, 
Ontario. 



14 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1889. 



Evans and Jamieson, Science, ’90, were employed 
by Mr. Donald, and Calvert, Science, ’90, visited 
the old land. 

Ellacott, Science, ’90, assisted Mr. Chipman, P.L.S., 
in the survey of a township in the northern part of 
Nipissing district. 

M. W. Hopkins, Science, ’87, once a pillar of The 
Gazette, is devoting his energies to bridge building 
for the Intercolonial. 

G. K. Addie, Science, ’89, has established an office 
of Civil Engineering and Land Surveying in his native 
city of Sherbrooke. 

Dr. McCurdy, ’89, has given up his practice at 
Ormstown and removed to Sutton, Que., where his 
prospects are enlarged. 

C. L. Wheeler, B.A., M.D., etc., has adopted the 
stage as a profession. If ever he strikes this town he 
will draw a full house. 

H. V. Truell, Prince of Wales gold medalist, Arts, 
’89, is at present acting as second head-master of the 
St. Luke Street High School, Montreal. 

Dan. Taylor, Science, ’87, is in Minneapolis, and 
has made a standing order to all the graduating class 
to fill engagements that he has contracted. 

Miss McFee and Miss Murphy, B.A.’s of ’88, have 
returned, respectively, from Cornell University and 
from Geneva, and will spend the winter in Montreal. 

Miss Alice Wilson, B.A., ’89, has accepted an im- 
portant position in a College in Winnipeg, Man. It 
is the first time a lady has been appointed to the 
post. 

Miss Maude Squire, B.A., ’89, has unfortunately, 
through ill health, beeu obliged to postpone enter- 
ing upon her medical studies at Kingston until next 
year. 

Miss Helen Reid, B.A., ’89, an efficient member of 
our last year s editorial staff, is in Geneva studying 
music and languages. The Gazette hopes to hear 
from her. 

There is now a colony of McGillians in Europe ; 
they are found everywhere, and their name is legion. 
Amongst them are LeRossignol, B. A., ’88, and Evansj 
Science, ’84. 

It is like a breath from the old days to hear from 
MacNutt, Science, ’88. He is chief cook in a Colo- 
rado smelting works, and if he should come this way 
at Christmas, as he suggests, the boys will take a half- 
holiday. 

How is this for an ex-editor 1 Rev. A. Parker 
Solandt, B. A.., B.D. That’s the name and title of the 
man that writes to wish The Gazette success. Sol- 
andt spent the last six winter months in Oberlin 
College, and some day may tell us something about it. 

Revs. J. K. Unsworth, Arts, ’84, and Hugh Pedley, 
Arts, ’76, passed through this city recently to attend,’ 
as delegates, the former from the Congregational 
Union of Ontario and Quebec, the latter fro°m that 
of Manitoba, the National Council of Congregational 
Churches at Worcester, Mass. 



George Stephen, Medicine, ’85, has undertaken the 
responsibilities of medical practice in London, Eng- 
land, with the highest prospects. If the possession 
of the highest degrees England can confer on deserv- 
ing students is any criterion, Mr. Stephen should 
receive the reward of his patience and courage. 

C. S. Mathieson, Med., ’89, The Gazette is glad to 
see, is taking a prominent part in the formation of a 
Medical Council in his Province, Prince Edward 
Island. If the society deals with quackery in as 
thorough a fashion as he dealt with the intricacies of 
Pathology, the respectability of the profession will 
reach a high standard. 



The following personals have been grouped to- 
gether for obvious reasons, and are meant to serve as 
an example or warning, as the case may be. 

What does this mean 1 — 

Furrier— Holt. — On the 16th inst., at the residence of the 
bride’s aunt, Mrs. J ames Gooderham, Toronto, by the Rev. W. 
S. Blackstock, Walter Frederick Ferrier, B.A.Sc., F.G.S., of 
New Brunswick, N.J , formerly of Montreal, to Josephine 
Alfreda, youngest daughter of E. B. Holt, Esq. 

Good luck, my boy. 

Rev. J. A. McFarlane, B.A., '85, has been called 
and inducted to the Presbyterian Church, Valleyfield. 
Married, too. 

T. J. S. Haythorne, Medicine, ’86, has obtained a 
lucrative position in one of London’s largest hospitals, 
and the best of the joke is he has assumed the marital 
relation toward a young lady of Wales. If she has 
the good qualities of Tom, they will make an amiable 
pair. 

J. McDougall, B.A., ’86, and M. McKenzie, have 
commenced their work in the China mission fields, 
and have taken their life co-workers with them. 

Rev. A. S. Grant, B.A., ’85, has taken charge of a 
flourishing congregation in Almonte, Ont., and has 
married him a wife. 

J. H. McVicar, B.A., ’85, appointed missionary to 
China, sailed from Vancouver Oct. 4th, taking with 
him — as so many of our other graduates have recently 
done — a wife to support and comfort him. 

Ur. A. G. Hall, ’88, settled at Ormstown, Que., 
was joined in matrimony last summer to Miss Janie 
Baird, of the same place. Dr. Hall has worked up a 
successful practice there. 



w^ubuw irum tne ivtaraime 



-LAW 1UGGC3 ai U 



to hear of the death of Thomas A. Lepage, at one 
time a student in Montreal, and latterly a teacher in 
Prince of Wales College, Charlottetown. Few youn 17, 
men have had a wider influence, and it will endure 
in the lives of his students and be* perpetuated by 
them. The following is from a local paper, and it is 
true in every particular “ He possessed the most 
valuable of a teacher’s powers — the ability to arouse 
and stimulate thought ; and there are not a few younz 
men and women who feel that, under his leadership; 
they first learned that most valuable of arts— the 



1889.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



15 



ability to think. His lectures showed a power of 
thought and expression, very rare in so young a man, 
while the poems that he has published give evidence 
that he possessed genius as well as talent, and that, 
had he lived, he might have obtained a high place in 
the world of literature. But, after all, it is his moral 
character which excites our greatest admiration. As 
a young man, he wore the ‘white flower of a blame- 
less life’ among us. He has shown that it was pos- 
sible to join with the keenest zest in all manly sports, 
and to enjoy life to the full, while preserving his 
manhood from the slightest stain.” 



[For “The Gazette.”] 

The tree with its leaves in luxuriance shading 
My path in the tune-yielding time of the year 
Now sighs in its dirge, while its foliage fading 
Descends to its sepulchre withered and sere. 

And yet I regret it with feelings the fonder, 

With feelings of mingled compassion and pain, 

As in pity I gaze on its branches and ponder 
Of once fragrant beauty what fragment* remain. 

For that barren tree with adornment so fleeting, 

That blows in the autumn wind bleak and forlorn, 
Bespeaks the sad state of a heart that is beating 
Bereft of the pleasures that once it has borne. 

Montreal. W. M. MacKkracher. 



Exchanges. 



The first exchange we pick up is the Tuftonian, a 
paper which often gladdened us last year, and now, 
again, it promises to be as substantial and entertain- 
ing as ever. 

The reliable and substantial Dalhousie Gazette 
opens another year with a good number. It is always 
interesting, and some of its matter often makes good 
reading. 

The Owl , whose resting-place is in Ottawa College, 
is a students’ paper in which Canadian Colleges may 
rightly take pride. The institution has lately been 
advanced to the position of a University, and in this 
wider sphere the Owl will be quite able to make its 
influence felt. 



The Portfolio , published by the students of the 
Wesleyan Ladies’ College, Hamilton, like most lady 
students’ papers, gives a good deal of information that 
we would be better without. We know that ladies 
are addicted to pillow fighting, and given to an indul- 
gence in oysters and grapes, but the Portfolio should 
not record these facts so frequently. 



This is from the College Student, published in 
Franklin and Marshall College, Lancaster, Pa. . 

“ We have heard of mean men, we have seen some, but the 
meanest we know are those who will not give a cent to college 
organizations, though they are abundantly able to c o so. e 
man who is able to subscribe to a fund, but who does not out of 
pure sordidness, should be treated with contempt. e vi 
bear watching. ‘ He doesn’t take any interest in football ! 
Oh no. Of course not-when he is asked to subscribe. He 
always ‘ bobs up serenely,’ though, when there is a free game. 
How he enjoys it ! One would almost think that he had equip- 
ped the team at his own expense.” 



Between the Lectures. 



“Are your domestic relations agreeable 1” was asked 
of an unhappy specimen of humanity. “ Oh ! my 
domestic relations are all right,” was the reply ; “ its 
my wife’s relations that are causing the trouble.” 

“ Can February March 1” asked the punster, with a 
sickly smile. “ Perhaps not, but April May !” — Bos- 
ton Transcript. 

“ June know this ought to be stopped. — Pittsburg 

Chronicle. 

“July awake nights to arrive at this conclusion 1” 

Scene in laboratory : — “ This must be the right for- 
mula, sir, for it’s on the bottle.” Prof.— “ My friend, 
bottles often mislead us !” 

A query for the medical tug-of-war team. — How are 
the sinews of war connected with the bone of conten- 
tion, and how do these affect the musselmans. 

A sporting gentleman sends us the list of names on 
the football team, written on a form, of which the 
following is an exact copy : — 

The Canada Temperance Act, 1878, and Amendments 
Thereto. Form of Declaration of Agent : 

I, the undersigned, solemnly declare that I 

am desirous of the adoption of a petition to 

the Governor General for the revocation of the Order 
in Council which brought into force the second part 
of the Canada Temperance Act in the United Counties 

of Leeds and Grenville. Made and declared at 

this day of April a.d. 1889, before me. 

Returning Officer. 

No wonder, as the gentleman observes, that his team 
was defeated. 

Enoch, we read, was translated by faith, but it won’t 
work when you try it on Horace 

Editors amount to something in Germany. For in- 
stance, the editor of the General Post Office Journal 
is called a Reichsoberamtszeitungschreiber. 



The history of education in this country for the last 
fifty years has been a history of crazes — the method 
craze, the object-lesson craze, the illustration craze, 
the “ memorygem ” craze, the civics craze— calling 
upon the children of eight to ten for information as 
to custom houses, post offices, city councils, gover- 
nors and legislators — the story-telling craze, the pho- 
nics craze, the world-method craze, the drawing and 
music craze, besides the craze for letters and business 
forms, picture study and physics. Now arrives 
manual training. Happy is the community where 
those in charge of the schools have maintained their 
clear judgment above all these fluctuations, shiftings 
and tinkerings, and have kept in view the real object 
of school education, “ to give a knowledge of self, to 
promote morality and refinement through the teaching 
of discipline and self-control, and to lead the pupils 
to see that the highest and only permanent content is 
to be obtained, not in the valleys of Sense, but by 
continual striving toward the high peaks of Reason.” 



16 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1889. 



College Ulorlb. 



The report as to Johns Hopkins University being in 
danger financially is emphatically denied. 

At the University at Zurich twenty-nine women are 
studying medicine, fourteen philosophy, and two pol- 
itical economy. 

Trinity College, Toronto, has this year obtained its 
first lady graduate in Arts — Miss Gregory, of Hamilton. 
Miss Gregory also holds a Mus.*Doc. from the same 
University. 

Cornell has four hundred freshmen ; Williams, 
eighty-four; Amherst, one hundred and three, and 
Dartmouth, seventy-eight. Harvard has 2,100 students 
in all this year. 

A commission on entrance examinations has been 
formed by New England Colleges. The object is to 
give uniformity and elevation of entrance standard. 
Fourteen colleges were represented. 

In the political field, where the magnetic qualities 
supposed to be generated by rougher and closer con- 
tact with all grades of society than college men com- 
monly experience are of value, the results of the ad- 
vantages the college-bred enjoy are shown by statistics 
Ex-Chancellor Henry W. Green, of New Jersey, is 
authority for the statement that eighty-seven of the 
highest offices were conferred upon men of collegiate 
education to forty-five upon men who had not received 
such education. Three hundred college graduates hold 
two-thirds of the highest offices in the gift of the com- 
monwealth, while they constituted less than one- 
twentieth of the population qualified to fill those of- 
fices. Dr. S. N. Fellows, of the Iowa University has 
shown that but one-half of one per cent, of the young 
men of the United States attend college or graduate ; 
yet this one-half of one per cent, acquire 58 per cent, 
of the most important public offices, while 99^ per 
cent, of non-graduates obtain but 42 per cent. An 
examination shows that the higher the offices the 
greater the percentage of college graduates who have 
filled them. The following table supports the state. 



ment : — 

Percentage 

Name of Office. of Graduates. 

House of Representatives 32 

United States Senate 46 

Vice-presidents of the United States 50 

Speakers of the House of Representatives 61 

Presidents of the United States 65 

Associate justices of the Supreme Court 73 

Chief Justice of the United States S3 



Despite the fact that £ per cent, of the young men 
of the country graduate from college, the chances of 
obtaining the presidency are 65 to 35 in favor of the 
graduate. 

IF YOU WANT TO HAVE YOUR HAIR 

Properly and Fashionably Cut, Singed and Dressed, 

—<3-0 TO 

THOS. SUTTON, 

BARBERS’ HALL, 

T7s7" irrcLsor Hotel Block, ^eel Street. 



A New Book in Shorthand: 

“The Idylls of the King.” 

By ALFRED LORD TENNYSON. 

An Engraved Shorthand Version of the above by Arthur G. 
Doughty, beautifully Illustrated, is now in the Press. Printed 
in red and black, on vellum paper. Cloth and leather binding. 
All communications and orders to be addressed to 

A. C. TROTTER, 

IE 3 . O. Hose 1734, - iLdlontreal. 

Or, N. STEWART DUNLOP, 

35© G-errard. Street Hast, Toronto. 



D. McENTYRE & SON, 

Fine Tailor Made Clothing, 

SPECIAL REDUCTION TO STUDENTS. 

53 BEAVER HALL HILL. 



YQIIR ( = 

Boots and Shoes, 

Rubbers, Overshoes and Moccasins 

— AT — 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 




UP TOWN : QUEEN’S HALL BLOCK, 



2243 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 



E. A. COWLEY, 

GENERAL INSURANCE. 

Fire, Life, Accident 

Associated with THE MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. of N.Y. ; 
THE LONDON ASSURANCE CO., 

And TRAVELERS’ ACCIDENT INSURANCE CO. 

-A.dd.rese z 

30 ST. CTO X3ZTT STREET, 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



E. & C. GURNEY & CO., 

335 dc 337 St. Steeet, Montheal 



STOVES, 

GRATES, 

RANGES, 

SCALES. 



CURNEY’S 



r ELEBRATEB Hof W>TEH HEATERS 



Cast Bundy Radiators. 



— i-Wholesale Manufacturers *— 




Hot Air Furnaces 

FOR 

Coal or Wood. 



ALL GOODS GUARANTEED, 



Circulars on Application. 



385 & 387 

St. Paul Street, 

MONTREAL. 



Established 1859. 

Heistr-st IE£- 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST, 

144 ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STREET, 

Montreal. 

The Dispensing of Physicians’ Prescriptions a Specialty. 
Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers sup- 
plied with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 

THE 

GEORGE BISHOP 

Engraving ^ printing 
Company. 

169 & 167 ST. JAMES ST , MONTREAL. 




limitations, Gards, Grests, programmes. 
JMonograms, kz., kz. 

IN THE LATEST STYLES. 

Doctors’ and Students’ Headquarters 

— FOR — 

E'ZXTE: XX-aTTi5.XT.fi. GXQfiLX^P^ 

Spiller & Co.’s (London, E.) Du Khedive Extra Fine 
CIGARETTES. 

Lowe & Co.’s THOMPSON PIPES and others. 

Largest and most Complete Stock of CANES in the City. VIRGINIA 
and TURKISH TOBACCOS. 

E. ik. ©ERTK, 

2235 St. Catherine Street, Queen’s Block. 



-Me PHOTOGRAPHY »» 

For CABIXET PHOTOS., go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For COMPOSI TIOX OF GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For all kimds of PHOTOGRAPHY, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S, 
SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS, 1 Bleury Street. 

SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS 
I AND CHEMICAL APPARATUS. 

S T^ull $todk don^tkutly oq Ski)d, Imported 
f)ifedt from tl\e I<ekdii)g ^lkgufkrtifre:t$ 
of tl\e WoRd. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. 



LYMAN, SONS & CO., 

384 ST. PAUL STREET. 





I 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Wm. Notman & Son, 




]\Teuj Scale of Trices this year 
for Students. 

17 BLEURY STREET. 



TELEPHONE No. 580. 




(LIMITED.) 



21 2H & 23 St Antoine Street MONTREAL 

T. H. LOVE, Managing Director. 

Our Laundry having been Refitted with the Latest and Most Im- 
proved Machinery, we are now prepared to offer special inducements to 

Families, Hotels, Steamships and Public Institutions, 

for the Washing and Finishing of Goods. Particular attention given to the 
Washing and Dressing of Goods for Shirt and Collar Manufacturers. 
Goods damaged by Water Cleaned and Re-finished to look equal to new. 
Lace and other Fine Work carefully Cleaned and Finished. No Chem- 
icals Used and Goods less roughly handled than by the ordinary hand 
work. Special Contracts made, and Tenders for work furnished on 
application. 

GOODS CALLED FOR AND DELIVERED FREE OF CHARGE. 



THE GENUINE 

Ooot^’S Fbiend 
BAKING POWDER 

Is the BEST VALUE in the market, is made from 
the PUREST INGREDIENTS, gives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to the user, and should be pre- 
ferred by all careful housekeepers. Retailed 
everywhere. 



C. ASHFORD'S 
CHEAP BOOK , STATIONERY, 

AND 

FANCY GOODS SHOP, 

MEDICAL BOOKS, 

Students’ Note Books, Dissecting Cases and Scalpels, 

(BY WEISS & SON,) 

CHEAP FO R CASH. 

Books procured to order from England & the United States 

816 AND 818 DORCHESTER ST., 




1850 and 1852 NOTRE DA.ME ST., CORNER MoCILE. 



The only Strictly First-class 

CLOTHING, FURNISHING, HAT and CAP HOUSE 

IN THE CITY. 

Carrying Constantly in Stock only First-class 

ZR/E-AZD'ST-IMIJLIDIE] CLOTHING 

Scotch, Irish, English & French Tweeds of our own special importation, for custom orders. 

BEAVERS, CHINCHILLAS, MELTONS - FOR OVERCOATS AND PEA COATS. 

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS, 

Orders Executed Promptly and Satisfaction Guaranteed. 

CALL and SEE our Stock, and the visit will rep- 





