CGibIs FORTNIGHTby 



A Fortnightly Journal of Literature, University Thought and Event. 



VOL. IV. 



MONTREAL, MARCH 4, 1896. 



No. II 




^ EDITORIAL BOARD ^ 



Editor-in-chief— Robert T. Mulltn (Law ’96). 

Secretay'y^J. C. Robertson (Arts ’96). 

H ARRi Dell (Comp. Med. and Vet. Sc. ’96). Wm. McDougall (Sc. ’96). 

W. B. Mowatt, B.A. (Med. ’96). Miss W, J. Pitcher (Donalda *96) 

Dr. R. Tait McKenzie (Graduates Society). 



^ BUSINESS BOARD ^ 

S. G. Archibald (Arts *97), Chairman, 

Edgar N. Armstrong, B.A. (Law ’97). Miss M. Hutchinson (Donalda ’96). 
Wm. Prodbrick (Med. '96). J. W. Bell (Sc. ’97). 

J. J. McCarrby (Comp. Med. and Vet. Sc. '96). 

The McGill Fortnightly is published by the Students of the University 
on the Wednesday of every second week during the College Session. 

The annual subscription is ^i.oo, payable strictly in advance. Remittance to 
be made to the Chairman of the Business Board, 113 McKay Street, Montreal. 
Single copies may be obtained at Wm. Drysdale & Co/s, E. M. RenouPs, Cyrus 
Ashford’s, Chapman's and W. Foster Brown's, Booksellers, Price, 10 cents. 

Address Contributions to Editor-in-Chief, 105 St. Hubert Street, Montreal. 



EDITORIAL COMMENTS. 



“COLLEGE CRITICS” AGAIN. 

A few weeks ago, our big, good-natured brother. The 
Gazette^ made us the subject of some friendly banter 
with respect to an editorial published in one of our 
issues recently, on the subject of Journalism. We 
had suggested that the public press was not abso- 
lutely perfect, and that certain objectionable features 
might be cured. But we endeavored to pave the 
way to these gentle strictures by the most profuse, 
yet sincere, praise of the press and press-men gener- 
ally. 

Our contemporary, the Queen's Quarterly^ in a 
moment of weakness published an article on the 
same subject, and thereupon The Gazette proceeded 
good-humoredly to banter us both. ‘ Really,’ says 
The Gazette, ‘ we are doing the best we can. There 
are defects, but when you grow a little older and 
begin to have some experience of life and knowledge 
of the world, you will find that there is nothing per- 
fect, and that it is very hard to get anything near to 
perfection — much less a newspaper.’ We are 
pleased that The Gazette has chosen to take us in this 
wise. We are well aware that the great journal 
might have come forward in anger, and annihilated 



us both. The metropolitan journals have always 
treated us with great consideration: they have ex- 
changed on even terms with us ; and when they take 
a note from our columns or give us a complimentary 
paragraph, which they not infrequently do, we take 
it as a special kindness, and begin to feel that, after 
all, our college journal is getting on in the world. 
Nevertheless, we have yet a thought on this subject 
of journalism, and we come forward to record it with 
a due and proper fear, and a solemn appreciation of 
the great tutorial presence ; but we beseech The 
Gazette not to harden its heart, nor under the prickle 
of our guileless compunction to smite us too cruelly. 
And this time our captious spirit has not to do with 
language, nor sensationalism, nor prize fights, but with 
a very important matter, near to the hearts of a large 
number of our students, and particularly to members 
of the literary society, — to wit, the singular manner of 
reporting the political news of the day, and espe- 
cially the parliamentary debates. In this department 
of newspaper work there has within late years been a 
vast amelioration, but it has been due, not to any 
radical reform in the newspaper sanctuary from 
whence issue the springs of newspaper vitality, but 
to a decadence of rabid partyism, a more manly 
independence, and a higher sense of fair play among 
the younger generation of electors. Read a news- 
paper of 20 years ago. Whether it be Tory or Re- 
form, one will search in vain for a true and impartial 
report of a parliamentary debate or a political meet- 
ing, in which the predominating political element 
is represented by the opposite party. The whole 
meeting or .debate is in the reporter’s hands ; it is 
at his mercy. So are not only the speakers, but the 
whole body of readers. He could and did add, 
diminish, pervert and prevaricate. Of course, where a 
verbatim report was given, this was not possible, nor 
could it occur in the hands of a perfectly fair-minded 
and truth-loving reporter. Even in giving a report 
of a political meeting or debate, without changing a 
word by judicious omissions, a speaker can be made 
to say most marvellous things. Now-a-days, what 
the people want is information ; — a plain, true, un- 
varnished report of what is said or done. The state- 
ment that Mr. So-and-So “took up the House’s 
time for an hour” will neither convince one section 
of readers nor please the other. If a report cannot 



202 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



be given, it is better to say Mr. So-and-So “spoke for 
an hour.” There is no suspicion of malice in that at 
least. Or, Mr. So-and-So of the opposite party 
“spoke for two hours but said nothing.” Now, this 
may be perfectly true — more’s the pity — but the 
intelligent reader will inquire : upon whose judgment 
or dictum are we to rely for this information The 
reporter’s. But who ? Is not the reporter in all fair- 
ness bound to sign his name to such a marvellous 
reportorial condensation ? 

And here occurs the thought, why do not all con- 
tributors and editors, especially, sign their names to 
their articles ? It is so in France by law. A man 
need not be ashamed of his opinions, if so be they 
are honest ; nor to tell the truth, ever so boldly, and 
then we have no duelling under the British flag ! 
And what an efficacious curb on malicious reports, 
unjust attacks, and unfair insinuations. But it will 
be objected that this principle of sub-signature would 
destroy the salutary influence of the press. When 
the newspaper speaks, it is not the voice of a fixed 
and definite entity that we hear, but that of a vague, 
intangible and inaccessible personality, emanating 
we know not whence, but from somewhere in the 
vicinity of the editorial rooms. We once heard 
Edward Blake, when threatened with newspaper ven- 
geance, exclaim in great wrath : “ What care 
I for the newspaper ! What is the newspaper } 
It’s only a man with a little more ink and 
paper at his disposal than you or I have.” He 
was a wise man, Edward Blake, and must have 
known. The influence of the great journals is not 
due to the anonymity of their editorial columns, but 
to the able, wise, and judicious manner in which 
public questions are discussed, their fair and reliable 
political and commercial reports, and general news, 
and the belief that they fairly represent the politi- 
cal or other convictions of an influential section of 
the people. This does not involve an unthinking, 
superstitious reverence to its anonymity. A great 
London journal, whose words are quoted the world 
over, only a couple of weeks ago gave us all a 
glimpse into the interior workings of the great news- 
papers. Mr. Gust — if we have the name properly — 
edited the Pa/l Mall Gazette with great ability. 
Standing on the watchtower, as it were, with a 
keen vision to see -the trend of events, and a virile 
perception to draw the true inference, day by day, 
he spoke through his columns to the nation, good 
counsel or the judicious policy. Or if he sat down- 
stairs and did the penmanship, and another, his 
master sought the pulse and spirit and signs of the 

times, and shaped the policy of the journal, great 

must have been the intellect of his master! But lo! 
one morning, Mr. Gust and all the editorial and 
reportorial staff were turned out into the street, and 



the master revealed himself to the world in the per- 
son of John JaC'jb Astor, Amer can plutocrat. The 
unfortunate editor had given umbrage to his master 
by writing up the English view of the Venezuela 
question, although he had been ordered previously 
to boom the restoration of the Monarchy in Brazil ! 
Such is the fountain from whence the policy and 
leading of some of the great journals. In the world 
of dollars many have heard of John Jacob Astor ; in 
the higher realm of intellect, not so many. 

The Fortnightly sets a good example. Behold 
our super-signatures. But we would be-cloud our 
identity. Hence we are all solemnly vowed to 
secrecy, as to these columns at least ; but for every 
line and sentiment herein indited we hold ourselves 
jointly, and jointly and severally responsible. 



FRIENDS OF McGILL. 

Men and women who have given of their wealth to 
McGill have I deservedly won the esteem of all her 
sons and daughters, but no less grateful should they 
feel to those who open their storehouse of learning 
and experience, and freely give therefrom. Among 
such benefactors we would class those who, through 
the columns of the Fortnightly, give to the stud- 
ents wise thoughts and broad views, the fruit of 
years rich in educational advantages. To Mrs. Garus- 
Wilson we are much indebted for her excellent arti- 
cle in this issue, written more especially for the women 
students, to whom this is not the first gift of much of 
her time and thought. Not a college session has 
passed since she came to Montreal in which she has 
not mos^t practically shown herself their benefactor, 
for on each occasion of her addressing them, a fresh 
impetus was given to their thoughts and aims. We 
read with pleasure and interest of the recent publica- 
tion of her second book “Tokiwa and other Poems,” 
and trust that her pen may long be wielded, not only 
in the interests of the readers of the FORTNIGHTLY, 
but for that wider circle whose affection and admira- 
tion she has already won. 



CORRESPONDENCE 



POLITIGAL SGIENGE IN OUR UNI- 
VERSITIES. 

I'o the Editor of the Fortnightly. 

Dear Sir, — 

Among the speakers at our University Dinner, none 
appeared more fully to appreciate the importance of 
the occasion, festive though it was, nor to make 
better use of the opportunity of addressing himself 
to our departments of the University, than did the 
Minister of Education for Ontario, the Hon, G. W. 
Ross, 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



203 



It is needless to say that his address was eloquent 
and forcible : it was more, it was in the highest 
degree timely, and must have carried conviction to 
the minds of those who listened to it. 

Two things were strongly brought out by the 
speaker ; — first, the increasing urgency of the de- 
mand that greater prominence should be given in the 
curricula of our Universites to Political Science ; and, 
second, the comparatively insignificant influence of 
our Canadian Universites in the political life of our 
young country. 

The first question dealt with is one that has, I 
believe, been recognized by many of our professors 
as calling for an early and effective solution, and it 
cannot be long before a chair shall be established 
giving Political Plconomy and Constitutional Law 
the prominence they deserve. 

It is true, the latter is provided for in the curri- 
culum of the Faculty of Law, and, I believe, most 
efficiently treated ; but the course is almost wholly 
out of reach of the student in Arts. 

Economic and constitutional questions are constantly 
before the public of to-day, and the pity is our higher 
institutions send out their graduates in too many 
cases wholly ignorant of the most rudimentary prin- 
ciples of political science. And is it so because the 
study of this branch is less valuable as a mental dis- 
cipline than the training involved in the study of the 
other departments to which such prominence is given 
in the curriculum of our University.^ I think not. 

The science of Political Economy is young no 
doubt; but for that very reason should prove the 
more attractive to both teacher and student, and 
should furnish any extent of unexplored region to the 
student of this most attractive subject. 

We, as Canadians, are proud of our country and 
its laws. We think we have a constitution that em- 
bodies the best elements of the best constitutions of 
civilized states, and probably we are not far wrong. 
But how many graduates of Canadian Universities 
have even a superficial knowledge of the funda- 
mental laws which form the written basis of our con- 
stitution, or have any acquaintance with those un- 
written principles of constitutional usage, which weas a 
component part of the British Empire have adopted > 
Not less important are the economic principles under- 
lying the commercial and financial operations and 
relations of this greatest of commercial nations to 
which we are proud to belong. To us therefore, who 
will in the near future form such an important part 
of the professional and business community of the 
Dominion, some acquaintance with first principles 
and fundamental doctrines will be highly important. 

Is it any wonder that our University graduates, 
apart from the members of the legal profession, occupy 

guch a limited sphere in the political life of the day as 



they do ? It seems to me the two questions, — training 
in the leading principles of Political Science, and an 
adequate influence in the great political and social 
questions of the day, — are intimately associated. 

Our Universities will never be fulfilling their func- 
tion in the State until our young men are in some 
degree equipped to intelligently face questions of 
such paramount importance as are presented by the 
political and social problems of this century. 

The remark of Dr. Depew, that “ lawyers are the 
only class who by their training are fitted to be 
legislators, ” seems to be a reflection on the training 
of our young business and professional men. Legis- 
lation does not involve a knowledge of the court or 
office procedure which is the peculiar province of 
lawyers. What appears to qualify for such work is 
an acquaintance with the broad principles of general 
application in the social and economic conditions of 
any civilized people. 

I trust, Mr. Editor, that our journal will raise its 
voice in favor of the fullest recognition of Political 
Science in the curriculum of our Arts Faculty. 

W. G. 

The Fortnightly is in entire accord and sympathy with the senti- 
ments expressed in this communication* The subject discussed is of 
the most vital importance, and in no Faculty has the call for 
Political Science been louder than in the Faculty of Law. It is to be 
hoped that before many years or even months have elapsed, McGill 
will be fully equipped in this respect. As our lease of office in con- 
nection with the Fortnightly has almost expired, it will devolve 
upon our successors to take the matter up, and deal with it in a man- 
ner suited to its paramount importance. — E d. 



CONTRIBUTIONS. 

MODERN HISTORIANS. 
MACAULAY. 

The name of Macaulay is well known, not only in 
the usual walks of literature, but in that which is 
thought to be its most ambitious province, — History. 
Catherine Macaulay (born in 1733, died in 1791) 
was an eminent historian in her day, and her work, 
The History of England from James I to the Acces- 
sion of the House of Hanover^ passed through several 
editions, but is now regarded as worthless. This lady 
was not, however, related to our later historian, 
Zachary Macaulay, a friend of Wilberforce, and an 
advocate of the emancipation of the negroes, to which 
object he devoted forty years of his life, was not a 
brilliant writer, nor did he attempt much more than 
a pamphlet ; but he had the honor of being the 
father of the most successful literary man of his day. 

With a learned and pious mother, and a father who 
had devoted himself to a great cause, we may be sure 
that education would be a first duty, and the son, 
Thomas Babir.gton Macaulay, gave early tokens of 



204 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



strong memory and great imagination. At school 
he was selected to invent and tell stories, and would 
repeat the longest tale in the Arabian Nights Enter- 
tainments^ almost without a fault. It is said, too, that 
at a long time after he had read it, he could, when 
grown up, and his memory was to a certain extent 
loaded, repeat a novel of Sir Walter Scott’s, story, 
characters, and scenery, almost as well as if the book 
were in his hands. His favorite books were, how- 
ever, those which may be recommended for simplicity, 
force and truth of style, which have no vulgarity, and 
whose pathos, sublimity and narrative power are 
quite unequalled, — the Bible, Shakespeare and 
Bunyan’s Pilgrim's Progress. 

From school, Macaulay went to Cambridge, whence 
he -wrote some capital verses, became distinguished 
as an orator, and contributed to Knight's Quarterly 
Magazine. The tendency of his mind was shown in 
the very title of these first essays. His first publica- 
tion in 1823 (he was born in 1800) was a fragment of 
a Roman tale, but by far the most noticeable is the 
“ Conversation between Cowley and Milton on the great 
Civil IVar," in which not only the style of language 
but that of thought of the Royalist and Republican 
are well imitated. So brilliant a writer would perhaps 
hardly in these days be overlooked ; and after 
Macaulay had graduated, he made his real entry into 
literature through the then royal gates of the Edin- 
burgh Review, his first essay being the brilliant one 
upon Milton (August, 1825). Next came another 
brilliant effort, on Machiavelli, and for twenty years, 
at many intervals, the writer and talker — accepted as 
a mouth-piece by the Whigs and Constitutionalists 
— delighted English readers with these masterly pro- 
ductions, which are perhaps as good reading as any- 
one can well get. 

They are brilliant, decisive, in the main correct, and 
pleasant to read as a novel. They are, perhaps, not 
so acute as the parallel essays of M. de St. Beuve, but 
they contain the results of an astonishing memory, 
ready to marshal facts, excellent in arrangement and 
order, while the language is as brilliant as it well can 
be. On the whole, Macaulay’s Essays are by far his 
best work. 

He was a most fluent talker ; he poured “ floods,” 
literally floods of information upon almost any sub- 
ject; he overwhelmed his hearers and astounded his 
rivals. 

“ Oh ! ” said Sydney Smith— too witty and too 
wise to take all these radiant-colored fireworks for 
truth, “Ah, if I was as sure ‘of anything as Tom 
Macaulay is of everything ! " And the sentence is a 
criticism. Again, in a company where all were won- 
dering at the inexhaustible and splendid talker, 
Sydney Smith broke in by plaintively asking for a few 
“brilliant flashes of silence.” These sayings will 



occur to anyone who reads much of Macaulay. 
There are, however, a few of his essays exceedingly 
brilliant. Few men knew more than he did of what 
he was about to write. He was essentially a man of 
letters, not an amateur, and he held no uncertain pen. 
He surrounded himself with the proper books, read 
deeply, saw quickly, arranged in his mind what he 
had to say, and ornamented his work with very pleas- 
ing diction. The present age hardly appreciates the 
neatness and clearness of such work. We have not 
now amongst us a sufficient reverence for superior 
literary workmen. 

Careless writing, bombasted with sensational 
phrases, is the rule of the day. 

To return, however, to Macaulay’s brilliant articles, 
republished as essays, those on Johnson, Clive, Fox, 
Pitt, Byron, and the comic dramatists, Horace Wal- 
pole, Warren Hastings and Machiavelli, are especi- 
ally worih reading. Macaulay gives his readers a 
great deal of information. His opinion is of course 
biased, colored by the medium through which it 
passes, as light is tinted in going through glass, but 
it is otherwise pure, and always in a good tone. Not 
that he strikes us as being ever very elevated and 
noble ; he is too much a man of the world for that, 
a man early successful, brought out into good life, 
enjoying (and he really did enjoy, for in those days 
literature and society were intimates not yet divorced, 
and the love of money had not quite swamped the 
love of brain) the cream of society, his poetry — 
though he had a great deal in him — died like the 
good seed that grew up among tares, choked by the 
cares, troubles, anxieties, the pleasures, riches and 
grandeur of the world in which it is sown. 

I have said but little about his poetry. In this, 
which is, after the manner of Scott, brilliant chronicle 
writing in excellent rhymes, we see the great author 
at his best. The battle of Ivry, the Roman ballads, 
the story of the Armada, are perfect specimens of 
art. But they are little more than art. Oh ! if 
Macaulay in his ballad of Virginia, instead of the 
bluster and the swagger we had something which 
would have touched more acutely the sacred source 
of tears ! Perhaps Horatius is the best. There is a 
swing, a martial ardor in the verses, a manly, honest 
ring which is essentially charming. You could not 
give a better present to a manly, ardent boy than 
these ballads. Moreover, Macaulay took the right 
view of the matter. Niebuhr had started the theory 
that the old Roman legends, upon which the early 
history of Rome was based, were mere ballad matters, 
myths, things that had not occurred, and were only 
dreamt of. Macaulay put these legends into ballads, 
and revivified them, showing that there was real life 
and fact in them. The story of Romulus and Remus, 
suckled by a wolf, may be a myth, but it is not im- 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



205 



possible, and has been paralleled in modern times. 
As for Horatu, Virginia and the rest, we believe 
them as firmly as we do Chevy Chase and the battle 
ot Otterburn. The fact is, they would be more won- 
derful as fables than as truths. The actual truth may 
have been perverted, the characters exaggerated, the 
local coloring may be false, but the kernel of the 
fable is true. We have had a great many denials 
knocked to pieces by Cell’s Pompeii, Rawlinson’s 
^SyP^i Layard’s Nineveh. Years ago it was the 
fashion to call Herodotus the father of history and of 
lies ; now, every day proves that what he tells of his 
own observation is accurate and true. 

Macaulay’s political career commenced in 1830. 
The Government made him Secretary of the Board 
of Control for India, he went to India as a member 
of the Supreme Council, and in two years he added 
considerably to his fortune, but not to his fame as a 
legislator. On his return he represented Edinburgh, 
but quarrelled with his constituents ; and having 
severed his connection with them, he returned to his 
old love, — literature, writing essays for the Edinburgh 
Review, the Encyclopaedia Britannica, and others. 
For the last twelve years of his life he was engaged in 
writing his History, which I have yet to notice. In 
1857 the brilliant leader-writer was chosen as the 
representative man of letters, and his honors cul- 
minated in a baron’s coronet. He was at last Lord 
Macaulay. New editions of his works were asked 
for, and he was expected to make brilliant flashes, 
not ofsilence,'but of eloquence in the House of Lords. 
It was not so. The dignity which was long in com- 
ing, he did not wear long. In 1859^6 died, and was 
buried in Westminster Abbey. 

What we have now to do with, is the History left 
us by this brilliant man. Urged by booksellers to 
write,— if it be that publishers always first suggest— 
Macaulay undertook a task which every day becomes 
more difficult,— that of writing a history of times in 
which he had lived only in imagination. A judicious 
reader well knew that there are a thousand points in 
the history of every man, and of every minister or 
king (upon which anyone, even the best informed, 
may be mistaken), that the historian is called upon to 
report,— matters of which he can have no positive 
knowledge ; and that before his path lie the thou- 
sand pitfalls, cunningly prepared by critic and anti- 
quary, who are glad to take advantage of his slips. 

The public welcomed the Historian in his difficult 
task, and when the first two volumes appeared, the 
work was in as much demand as any novel ; and very 
much like an historical novel the book reads. The 
first chapter opened with a grave and majestic tone 
of writing and march of language not unworthy of a 

historian. 



“ I purpose/’ wrote Macaulay, to write the History of England, 
from the Accession of King James the Second, down to a time which 
is in the memory of men still living. 1 shnll recount the errors which 
in a few months alienated a loyal gentry and priesthood from the House 
of Stuart. I shall trace the course of that revolution which terminated 
the long struggle between our Sovereigns and their Parliaments, and 
bound up together the rights of the people and the title of the reigning 
dynasty. * * How the authority of the law and the security of pro- 

perty were found to be compatible with a liberty of discussion and of 
individual action never before knov^n; how, from the auspicious union 
of order and freedom, sprang a prosperity of which the annals of 
human affairs had furnished no example ; how our country, from a 
state of ignominious vassalage, rapidly rose to the place of umpire 
among European Powers; how her opulence and her manial glory 
grew together ; how, by wise and resolute good iaith, was gradually 
established a public credit fruitful of marvels, which to the statesmen 
of any former age would have seemed incredible ; how a gigantic 
commerce gave birth to a maritime power, with which every other 
maritime power, ancient or modern, sinks into insignificance ; how 
Scotland, after ages of enmity, was at length united to England, not 
merely by legal bonds, but by indissoluble ties of interest and affec- 
tion ; how in America the British colonies rapidly became far mightier 
and wealthier than the realms which Cortes and Fizarro had added to 
the dominions of Charles t^he Fifth ; how, in Asia, British adventurers 
founded an empire not less splendid and more durable than that of 
Alexander.’^ 

We can readily perceive how the style marches. 
We can read many pages of such brilliant writing 
without feeling tired, for the buoyant words carry 
along the reader as a giant river carries along a swim- 
mer upon its mighty bosom. After the glories of the 
kingdom came the antithesis of defeat and trouble. 
The historian was also to relate how the evils of our 
system grew up with the good ; how “ imprudence 
and obstinacy broke the ties ” which bound 
America to its parent state; how 

“ Ireland cursed by the domination of race over race, and religion 
“ over religion, remained indeed a member of the empire, but a 
‘ ‘ withered and distorted member, adding no strength to the body 
“ politic, and reproachfully pointed at by all who feared or envied 
•“ the greatness of England.” 

Unfortunately, for although we by no means esti- 
mate Macaulay’s as a great History, we can yet 
appreciate its merits,— the author did not live to carry 
on his gigantic task, or to even approach the com- 
pletion of the work. The part he was most fitted to 
do was left out. Vols. I and II extend from 1685 to 
the Proclamation of William and Mary; Vols. HI 
and IV from the years 1689 to 1697 ; and in 1861 a 
fifth volume was added, completing the work from 
the posthumous notes of the author to the death of 
his favorite and hero, William HI. This was edited 
by his daughter, Lady Trevelyan, and had the advan- 
tage of a copious index. But, after all, Macaulay’s 

History is a vast fragment, a fine torso of a statue, 

no more. In the 31*^ chapter of Vol. I. occurs the 
celebrated sketch of the manners of the people, in 
which every squire is represented as an ignorant 
brute, every parson when young as a “young Levite” 
ready to marry a cast-off mistress or a worn-out wait- 
ing woman ; and, when old, as carting dung, feeding 
pigs, unable to rear his family, sending his daughters 



2o6 



McGill fortnightly 



to service and his sons to beggary or the army. 
The gentry are all coarse and ignorant, receiving an 
education differing little from that of a menial ser- 
vant, not materially different from a rustic miller or 
alehouse keeper of our time. Their chief pleasures 
were commonly derived from field sports and unrefined 
sensuality. T. heir language was such as we should 
now expect from only the most ignorant clowns ; 
their oaths, coarse jests, and scurrilous terms of abuse, 
were uttered with the broadest provincial accent. 
But if the gentry were thus pictured from play -books 
and pamphlets, the clergy came off worse. If any man 
was a Tory, he was at once ticketed as a rogue. Over 
most of his political opponents Macaulay emptied a 
slang dictionary of abuse, little befitting the dignity 
of History. The church and the clergy are equally 
well bespattered. A nobleman is described as “ a 
“dogged, rancorous, hating party-man, whom the 
“ clergy consequently looked upon as their .own, and 
“ extended their indulgence to his drinking and 
“swearing.” In short, Macaulay in his History gives 
abundant proofs of his doing that which no historian 
should do. He may not indeed be impartial, but he 
has no right to be unjust. Those whose politics were 
not of the true Whig shade were blackened and dis- 
torted ; they who were Whigs, even when proved to 
be traitors and even murderers receiving bribes from 
France, were white-washed and set straight. 

But there are graver faults than this in Macaulay. 
He is always so “cock-sure ” of everything. He has 
a subjective style, which, however picturesque it may 
be in a novel, is out of place in a history. If 
Macaulay had been side by side, or indeed inside the 
hearts of those whom he speaks, he could not have 
described their motives and motions with more cir- 
cumstantiality. Now such circumstantiality all reflec- 
tive persons must know to be false. These errors 
are indeed spontaneously redundant. Voluptuous 
description and minute delineation as to fact or cir- 
cumstance startle the reader in a history, although 
they please him in a novel. Lord Macaulay is not so 
much a writer of history as an historical novelist ; 
and while we admire his vigor and picturesque style, 
his immense memory and wide range, we cannot give 
to his book that credence and authority which “ Grave 
History ” is entitled to. 

H.M. 

colleges for WOMEN IN THE 
HOMELAND. 

BY MRS. ASHLEy' CARUS-WILSON, B.A. 

Time was when an article on Colleges for Women 
must have been in the main a plea for what might be 
and ought to be, rather than an account of what is. 
Now, however, though the antiquated objections to 



that higher education of women for which colleges, 
as contrasted with schools, provide, are occasionally 
furbished up, the battle for them has been fought and 
won, and it will be enough for a writer in the 
McGill Fortnightly in 1896 to give their history, 
already somewhat long and complex, and to take 
the arguments on their behalf for granted. I tell this 

story from the point of view of a graduate of the Uni- 
\^rsity of London, and former student of University 
College, London, to whom residence in the British 
capital meant varied opportunities of hearing about 
the movement as a whole, and of becoming personally 
acquainted with some of its leaders. To the men 
who have generously shared with us intellectual 
privileges once exclusively theirs, and to the women 
of an older generation who labored to win for us what 
they themselves longed for in vain, we of the 
new age, reaping as a matter of course where they 
sowed, in spite of much hindrance and opposition, 
owe a deep debt of gratitude. 

My story begins with two great English men of 
letters. Daniel Defoe, in his “ Essay on Projects” 
(1697), suggests among good schemes, which have 
since been carried out, a college for the higher educa- 
tion of women. Tennyson, 1 50 years later, pictured 
that college through an exquisite poet’s dream in his 
“ Princess ” (1847), closing with the prophetic words 

Maybe wildest dreams 
Are but the needful preludes of the truth. 

Liice the “ beautiful building “reared by Browning’s 
Abt Vogler at the organ, his “ fair college” is an un- 
real fabric, of fantastic structure throughout. It is 
dissolved, and its fair head “ comes down” like any 
other maid from “ yonder mountain height ” to learn 
that 

The bearing and the training of a child 
Is woman’s wisdom,” 

But we utterly misunderstand the poet’s purpose if 
we think he argued either playfully or seriously 
against higher education. As an artist, he sees the 
whole subject in its ideal— that is, in its largest and 
loftiest aspects, and goes to the root of the matter in 
the famous words, 

“ For woman is not undevelopt man, 

But diverse : could we make her as the man, 

Sweet Love were slain.” 

Love is here used in its widest sense of all those home 
affections which make up the best part of the lives of 
men as well as of women. For with wonderful skill 
the poet solves each of the problems in his poem, by 
human love in one or other of its strongest and deep- 
est forms. We cannot make woman as the man ; 
nature is too strong. We do not want to do so, for 
the loss would more than counterbalance the gain. 
But away with learning if it is to turn women into 
hard-hearted pedants. Says Kingsley in his “ Yeast ” 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



(published four years after the “ Princess ”) 
Tennyson shows us the woman when she takes her 
stand on the false masculine ground of intellect, work- 
ing out her own moral punishment by destroying in 

herself the tender heart of flesh She falls from 

pride to sternness, from sternness to sheer inhum- 
anity. Culture of the right kind need not have this 
result, was the answer then. It has not had it, is the 
answer now ; when we can show that instead of taking 
woman out of her own place into a place she could 
never fill so well, it actually aids her in adorning her 
own place and in fulfilling her peculiar duties as the 
“ home-maker.” 

Not with a rebuke, still less with a scoff, did the 
poet meet the new aspirations of women 50 years 
ago. His thought remains as true as ever ; his warn- 
ing is not altogether unneeded now. His poetical 
embodiment of both truth and warning was a happy 
inauguration of the whole British movement for 
higher education. 

One year later, on May ist, 1848, the first English 
college for women was opened, Frederick Denison 
Maurice being one of its founders. This was Queen's 
College, Harley Street, London, incorporated in 1853. 

History repeats itself. A ladies’ association 
organizing classes, lectures and examinations, by uni- 
versity professors, but not at the University, gradu- 
ally working on to a college for women and admission 
to university lectures and degrees, — such is the 
sequence of events at Oxford, Cambridge, London 
and Edinburgh. We take the story as it concerns 
the first three, and the reader must decide which uni- 
versity has been foremost in the enterprise since the 
one that formed the first residential college for women 
is likely to be the last in admitting them to its de- 
grees. 

As early as 1865, some lectures and classes for 
women were organized at Oxford,\)\xt its “ Association 
for Promoting Higher Education of Women ” was not 
formed till 1878, or officially recognized till 1893. In 
October, 1879, two residential colleges for women 
were opened : Somerville Hall and Lady Margaret 
Hall. 

Somerville Hall (now Somerville College) consists 
of three groups of buildings occupying three acres, 
and accommodating 65 students. They must satisfy 
the Principal on entrance that their attainments 
are such as will enable them to benefit by the 
course of study, and must obtain special permission 
each term to continue in residence, if they do not 
take the University examinations. The total charge 
for board, lodging and tuition (not including the Uni- 
versity fees) is from to a year. Miss A. 

Maitland is the Principal. 

Lady Margaret Hall accommodates about 40 stu- 
dents, and unlike Somerville College, which is “strictly 



207 



undenominational,” it is on Church of England prin- 
ciples. Students must be over 16, and must have 
passed an entrance examination, or its equivalent 
Each, as at Somerville, has one room. The charges 
are a year for board and lodging, with about £20^ 
a year for tuition in addition. Miss Wordsworth is 
the Principal. Various scholarships are given both at 
Somerville and at Lady Margaret. 

A third college, St. Hugh's Hall, accommodating 
25 students, was founded in 1886, on Church of Eng- 
land principles, like Lady Margaret. Its charges are 
from ;^'45 to £ 6 ^ a year, with ;^I5 to ;^2 5 for tuition 
also, and its Principal is Miss Moberly. Besides 
these colleges, some smaller houses for students have 
been lately opened at Oxford. 

Though it does not as yet actually confer its de- 
grees on women, Oxford offers them many advan- 
tages for special study, and admits them to most of 
the classes held by University and College lecturers 
even if they do not offer themselves for public 
examinations. Those who take the full course for 
the B.A. are required to conform to all University 
regulations as to residence, terms of study, etc. and 
“ their names are published in the same manner as 
those of the men.” The Honors Moderations and 
final Honor Schools of Mathematics, Science and 
Modern History were opened to them in February, 
1884, and in 1894 all the other examinations except 
those for medical degrees, besides an Honor Examina- 
tion in Modern Languages for women only. 

The first lectures and classes for women at Cam- 
bridge were formed in 1870, the same year that the 
Ladies’ Educational Association at Montreal was 
organized. The Cambridge Association for Promot- 
ing the Higher Education of Women dates from 
October, 1873. 

Four years earlier, in October, 1869, a residential 
college for women at Hitchin was opened, which 
was moved to its present abode some three miles 
from Cambridge, and incorporated as Girton College 
on July, 20th 1872. This is the oldest and one of 
the largest residential colleges for women in 
England. As the copy of its latest report 
expected for many weeks past has not yet reached 
me, my statistics are less complete than I could wish. 
But vivid impressions of a bright little visit paid to 
its Mistress, Miss Welsh, in November, 1890, remain 
with me. Unlike Somerville and Newnham Colle ^es, 
it consists of one imposing Gothic building, designed 
to extend all round its quadrangle in time, with a fine 
peal of bells in its square tower. It accommodates 
about 1 50 students, each of whom has two rooms. At 
8 a.m. the Mistress reads prayers, the psalms for the 
day, and collects from the Liturgy, All then adjourn 
for breakfast to the great hall with its high table for 
the staff, its portraits of Miss Emily Davies, foundress 



2o8 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



of Girton, Lady Stanley of Alderley, and others, and 
onjthe mantelpiece, the silver cup won in a tennis 
match with Newnham. During my visit, this meal 
was interrupted by an alarm of fire, and a stampede^ 
followed by laughter along the corridor and speedy 
return. The summons had merely been a test of the 
fire-brigade’s readiness to go into action. Lectures 
in Cambridge by University and college lecturers, and 
in 14 lecture rooms at Girton by the resident staff and 
some 30 visiting lecturers fill the morning, and to these 
no outsiders, not even members of the College 
Committee admitted. Lunch is served from 12 to 3. 
Then comes recreation and exercise till afternoon tea 
in their own rooms ; each student finds a charm in 
boiling her own kettle, “ for myself and a chosen 
friend or two.” Dinner is at 6 or 6.30, and all 
lights are out at 10 o’clock after an evening of diligent 
study. 

Three points of contrast between Girton and other 
Cambridge colleges struck me : its portals and dining 
hall served throughout by the “ neat-handed Phillis ; ” 
the tasteful decoration of both private and public 
rooms with chrysanthemums in profusion ; and, in con- 
tradistinction to such mellowed tomes as those of 
Trinity College, the modern character of the volumes 
in its Library, to which Mr. Ruskin had just pre- 
sented his “Songs of Tuscany.” 

The germ of Newnham College was a house for five 
students, of which Miss Clough took charge in Octo- 
ber, 1871. Its South (or Old) Hall was opened under 
her in 1875 ; Sidgwick (or North) Hall in 1880 ; and 
Clough Hall in 1888. Newnham College was incor- 
porated in 1880. These three halls stand on some 
8)4 acres, and are connected by covered corridors. 
They contain nine lecture and class rooms, and accom- 
modate about 1 50 students besides the Staff. Each 
student has one room. Its Library contains over 
8,000 volumes. The foundress, Anne Jemima Clough 
('1820-1892), is commemorated by the fine bronze 
gates subscribed for by over 500 past and present 
students, and presented to the college on November 3, 
1894. Mrs. Henry Sidgwick is the present Principal ; 
and the vice-principals, each in charge of a Hall, are 
Miss Helen Gladstone, daughter of the late Premier, 
Miss Stephen and Miss M. E. Rickett, a 25th Wran- 
gler. Students are not admitted under 18, and the 
average age for entrance is 21 or 22 ; they must have 
passed an entrance examination or its equivalent, and, 
as a rule, only those reading for a Tripos, with a reas- 
onable prospect of obtaining honors, can reside at 
Newnham for more than two years. The complete 
course involves residence for either three or four 
years. As at Girton, instruction is given partly by 
resident lecturers, partly in the ordinary university 
lectures. The charges for board, lodging and tuition 
(not including examination fees) is from £2^ a term. 



the terms being eight or nine weeks. Several scholar- 
ships, some of as much as .;^5o a year, are given. 

The total number of past and present students is 
999. In November, 1894, the Principal was able to 
report that Newnham stood third on the list of col- 
leges in Cambridge, second to Trinity and St. Johns 
only in the number of its students who had taken hon- 
ors, and fourth on the list of colleges for first classes. 

But although, last year, 112 of the university pro- 
fessors, university readers and university and col- 
lege lecturers at Cambridge had opened their lectures 
to women {i.e,, to Girton and Newnham students, 
and to others living in Cambridge with parents and 
guardians, who are “out-students” at Newnham), no 
woman can as yet write “ B.A. Cantab ” after her 
name. They are admitted to university examina- 
tions, and receive certificates accordingly, but their 
names are published in a separate list, showing what 
places or classes they would have taken in the Tripos 
had they been men. As Sir William Dawson said 
in his lecture to the Delta Sigma Society in December, 
1894 : “There is something pathetic in this injustice, 
and in the meekness with which it has been borne. 
Year by year, the women have gone up for the same 
examinations with the men, and have proved them- 
selves their equals, even in the mathematical Tripos, 
but they have been denied the distinction for which 
they have worked so well, though the University can- 
not refuse to grant its certificates of passing and 
honors. Yet the women have their revenge, for the 
policy of exclusion has caused it to come to pass, that 
instead of falling into the position of mere partial 
students, they go up for honors and take them, so 
that all the world knows that the average standing of 
the women is higher than that of the men, and that the 
greater number of the men who go out with the poll 
B.A. are inferior to the women who receive no de- 
gree.” 

The Newnham statistics quoted above, and the fact 
that all the principal subjects for which honors are 
offered at the University are taken up by some 
women, is even more significant of the serious aims 
and efforts of women students than even such brilliant 
successes as those of Miss Ramsay (Mrs. Montagu 
Butler) of Girton, who took the first place in the 
Classical Tripos of 1887,- and of Miss Fawcett of 
Newnham, who came out “ above the senior wrangler ” 
in 1890. 

We turn to a University that does not refuse the 
“guinea’s stamp” to its gold, and women must feel 
proud of the fact that its degrees are reckoned the 
hardest of all British degrees to obtain. At London, 
the intellectual equality is so absolute, that one hears 
of the examiner in an important honors examination, 
asking, after he had sent in his returns, which of the 
papers he had just marked were written by women. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



209 



Not once, but often, have women distinguished them- 
selves in its lists. 

The efforts of Thomas Campbell the poet, of 
George Grote the historian, of Lord Brougham, 
and others, to found a metropolitan university in 
which the highest education should be open to 
all comers, without the imposition of religious 
tests, resulted in October, 1828, in the opening of a 
large pile of buildings in Gower Street, London, as 

the University of London.” This was seven years 
after McGill received its first Charter, but 24 years 
before this University began its career as an impor- 
tant educational institution. Fight years later, two 
charters were signed on the same day, 28th Novem- 
ber, 1836, the one establishing this foundation 
under the name of U niversity College, London, as a 
teaching body, preparing for degrees in Arts, Me- 
dicine, Law and Science, but not conferring them ; 
the other establishing under the name of The 
University of London, an examining body to con- 
fer degrees but not to teach, whose abode is just off 
Piccadilly and Regent’s Street, and in the same block 
as the Royal Academy. 

This University founded a special examination for 
women in 1867, and in 1869, by a slight change 
in the wording of the constitution of University 
College, its sphere of labor was no longer limited 
to “young men.” In the spring of 1869, the Lon- 
don Ladies’ Educational Association organized two 
courses of lectures to women by University Col- 
lege professors at the Beethoven Rooms, Harley 
Street, and in 1871, two small Science Classes for 
women were held within the College, ‘Tor conveni- 
ence of access to apparatus necessary for experi- 
ment.” These classes were arranged to begin and end 
at the half hour, so that men and women students 
need not encounter each other in the corridors. 
Gradually all the women’s classes were transferred to 
the College, and, finally, in the case of some very 
small senior classes, those for Political Economy and 
Hebrew, whose students could be trusted as sober and 
mature, they ventured to gather men and women in 
the same class room at the same time, as indiscrim- 
inately as if they had been at church or in a drawing 
room. According to the Queen of October 17th, 
1874, there were then 300 women and 900 men 
students at University College. 

In January, 1874, Parliament had been memori- 
alized by 471 graduates of the University, to admit 
women to its degrees; in January, 1878, the Senate 
laid a Charter for their admission before Convocation, 
which Convocation approved of by a majority of 
almost two to one. This Charter was finally granted 
to the University on March 4, 1878, and one result 
was a great impetus to the women’s classes at- Uni- 
versity College, which had always been foremost in 
preparing for London degrees. 






Later on still when I became a student there, the 
question as to mixed classes was working out to a 
very practical solution. For instance, a Greek class, 
meeting twice a week, consisted of myself and Miss 
Mary Robinson (now Madame Darmesteter), the 
well-known author. After a while, the professor gave 
us our choice between continuing this plan, or joining 
the men’s class for the same books, which met thrice 
a week. Anxiety to learn as much Greek as possible 
carried the day, and we two young girls took our 
places side by side in the general class, and had no 
cause to regret doing so. Equally practical con- 
siderations divided some of the very large classes 
into two halves, one for men and one for women 
students. In class rooms and library, the women sat 
with the men, generally in little groups of two or three 
together ; and they had their own reading room and 
their own common room for rest and refreshment 
between lectures, their whole department being 
looked after by a lady superintendent. Even more 
here than elsewhere, the rule that* a girl who respects 
herself will always be treated with respect held good ; 
and when a girl took a first place in the examina- 
tions that would in former days have been won by a 
man, the feeling seemed entirely generous ; and the 
competition stimulated both men and women to 
renewed earnestness over their work. In case there 
are some left, however, whose ideal for and of the girl 
of to-day is low enough for them to fancy that a college 
career may hinder her “chances of matrimony,” or 
that study in a men’s college may lead to idle flirta- 
tion, I may mention that a very happy marriage 
took place between two of my fellow-students who 
attended the same lectures for the same degree 
during several years, but never actually spoke to 
each other till both had added “ B.A. with honors ” 
to their names. 

Before turning to residential colleges for women 
working for London University, reference should be 
made to College Hall, Byng Place, London, opened in 
October, 1882, as a residence for women studying at 
University College, who were not like myself inhab- 
itants of the metropolis ; and of Bedford College as 
another non-residential college for women in London. 

In October, 1882, was opened Westfield College, 
Hampstead, endowed by Miss Dud in Brown, to pro- 
vide residence and instruction for women preparing 
for London degrees on Church of England princi- 
ples. Like Girton, it has a Mistress, not a Principal, 
and Miss Constance Maynard, one of the first 
Girtonians who took the Moral Science Tripos at 
Cambridge, began her work there with Miss Katharine 
Tristram, B A. Lond. (now Principal of the Bishop 
Poole Memorial School at Osaka, Japan) as resident 
tutor, in a private house containing five students. In 
a year or two they had filled the two adjoining houses* 

— 




210 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



and a fourth as well. Then, when the living college 
of students had already taken a good place in the 
London lists, Kidderpore Hall at Finchley was 
purchased, a fine building which accommodates 
nearly 50 students, and can be added to as time goes 
on. Students must be over 18, and must have 
passed an entrance examination or its equivalent. 
Each has two rooms, and the charges for three 
terms of about eleven weeks each are;^i05, which 
includes examination fees. Writing to me just thir- 
teen years after she began to shape its destinies, Miss 
Maynard says that she can feel the College was worth 
giving a life to ; that of the 1 15 students from it now 
out in the world, the large majority are doing some 
sort of good and useful work, whether public or pri- 
vate. Four of them have become missionaries. As 
at Oxford and Cambridge, the resident staff, several 
of whom are former students graduating from the 
College, is supplemented by visiting lecturers. 
Scholarships are also given. 

It is at Oxford, whose own architecture makes it 
second to none among the beautiful cities of the world, 
that the women’s colleges are most modest architec- 
turally. It is at Oxford also, with its unequalled 
traditions of a whole millennium of learning, that a 
woman can get a university education at the smallest 
cost. For the college of grandest architecture and 
most sumptuous equipment, which claims to cover 
more ground than any other college buildings in the 
world, we must turn to Holloway College^ Egham, 
Surrey, reared at a cost of nearly ;^i,ooo,ooo, whose 
only tradition, so far, is the profitable popularity of a 
patent medicine. It is within five miles of Windsor, 
a vast pile of red brick faced with grey stone, round 
two quadrangles. In the centre of one is a marble 
statue of Her Majesty, who opened the College on 
30th June, 1886, and permitted it to be called the 
Royal Holloway College ; in the centre of the other, 
a marble group of the founder and his wife. It 
accommodates over 200 students, each of whom has 
two rooms ; its dining hall is 100 ft. long and 30 ft. 
wide and high. It has a very ornate chapel, and a 
gallery of well-known modern pictures gathered 
together, “ regardless of cost.” Students must pass 
an entrance examination, and the charges are £<^o a 
year, exclusive of examination fees. Many scholar- 
ships are given. There were 88 students there last 
summer, but I gathered from the secretary’s state- 
ments that Westfield, with half that number, had 
sent up as many for the London examinations as 
Holloway had done. Holloway, however, works for 
Oxford examinations as well. Cambridge ones are 
out of the question, owing to the conditions of resi- 
dence required by that University. Miss Bishop is 
the Principal, and her staff are, almost without 

exception, university women. Its religious basis is 
undenominational. 



The founder’s aim was that it should ultimately 
become a university wholly feminine, granting its 
own degrees, as Wellesley College does. That 
American foundation illustrates the advantages of 
such a scheme in emphasizing studies of special value 
to women ; its 153 Grecians to 85 Latinists in recent 
lists reverses the old preference of Latin to Greek for 
instance in a curious way. But it also illustrates its 
disadvantages in inevitably setting up a different 
standard of attainment, and incidentally of depriving 
women of the great benefit of being taught by first- 
rate men, as they are now taught at our English 
Universities. 

Preparation for London degrees can also be ob- 
tained at two great collegiate schools, containing, if 
I mistake not, over 500 scholars each, and adding to 
the school proper what is virtually a college, where 
girls, instead of “ finishing at 17,” can work on into 
the twenties till they graduate. The founders of 
both were among the first students at Queen’s 
College, whose schemes included classes and cer- 
tificates for teachers. Miss Beale still presides over 
the Ladies' College, Cheltenham ; but the North 
London Collegiate School for Girls has now a second 
head in Mrs. Bryant, D.Sc., Lond. Her predecessor 
was one of the pioneers of the whole movement. 
Miss Frances Mary Buss (1827-1894) opened a 
small private school in Kentish Town, London, with 
six pupils in 1848. Moved to Camden Town in 
1850, its numbers increased rapidly, and its pupils 
more than 30 years ago, were among the first who 
were sent up for the Cambridge Local Examina- 
tions, now so largely used by schools throughout the 
country. Great city companies came forward to 
endow her foundation, which was as much her own 
creation as the somewhat similar foundation of St. 
Paul’s was Dean Colet’s foundation ; and the Girls’ 
Public Day School Company took her school as the 
model for what are now the leading girls’ schools in 
England. She founded the Head Mistresses As- 
sociation, and in its early days, as many as one-third 
of the students at Girton had been her pupils. 

I purposely omit here any reference to medical 
colleges for women, as I told the whole story of 
their medical education last year in a lecture, which 
has been published in Montreal by Messrs. Lovell, 
and our subject is already large enough to be almost 
unwieldy. 

Nor can I do more than mention the Ladies' 
Department of King's College at Kensington, through 
which that College (founded a few years after 
University College to do similar work on Church 
of England lines) took its share in the higher educa- 
tion of women, in a way peculiar to itself. Classes 
taught by King’s College professors were opened in 
Kensington in 1878. They do not prepare for any 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



2II 



univeisity examinations (I believe), but give an op- 
portunity to society women and girls who could not 
undertake a regular college course, to follow up some 
definite study on leaving school. They have doubt- 
less encouraged others, as they encouraged me, to go 
on to a college course, having once tasted the delight 
of voluntary after-school study. 

Crossing the Tweed, we note the Edinburgh 
Ladies Association for organizing lectures to women 
in connection with Edinburgh University, in 1868, 
the fact that in November, 1869, five ladies matri- 
culated at Edinburgh, but were not permitted to 
proceed to a degree, and that in 1894, acting upon 
the Ordinance of the University Commissioners in 
1892, Edinburgh admitted women to its degrees. 
In Andrew's established an L.L.A. 

degree for women, which many have since ob- 
tained. In 1883, Queen Margaret College at Glasgow 
was founded, in connection with the Glasgow Uni- 
versity Faculty of Arts, and all the Glasgow degrees 
are now open to women. From the Times of Jan- 
nuary loth, 1896, we learn that during 1895, of 2,836 
matriculated students at Edinburgh, 167 were 
w'omen, 160 of whom were in Arts, 5 in Music, and 
2 in Science. 

Crossing St. George’s Channel, we note that the 
new Royal University of Ireland admitted its first 
nine girl graduates in 1884 to the B.A. degree. 
Victoria College, Belfast, has sent up a good contin- 
gent to this University. Under its Principal, Mrs. 
Byers, it has grown from a girls’ school into a most 
important centre of Irish higher education. 

In Wales, we note Aberdare Hall, Cardijj, opened 
in 1885, under the charge of the Hon. Isabel Bruce 
(now Mrs. Russell), daughter of Lord Aberdare, the 
energetic worker in the higher education cause after 
whom it was called. 

Summing up, eight of the ten British Universities, 
— London, Durham, Victoria, Edinburgh, Glasgow, 
Aberdeen St. Andrew’s and the University of Ire- 
land, — now admit women to their degrees. In 
1895, a Committee of the Council of Oxford Uni- 
versity was appointed to consider the desirability of 
granting degrees to women. March 3rd, 1896 is 
fixed as the date for submitting the matter to Con- 
gregation. There is some danger that Cambridge 
which, 20 years ago, was acting as pioneer in the 
movement for extending the advantages of academic 
education to women, should be the last to bestow, 
upon them the traditional recognition of their work. 
Four memorials, one signed by 2,088 members of the 
Senate, and one by 1,172 students of Girton and 
Newnham are now before the Council of the Senate, 
strongly urging the admission of women to the 
Cambridge degree. With this latest intelligence 
from the of February 21st, 1896, I end our 

story. 



What can be said as to actual results of this higher 
education .? 

Random statements as to its adverse results on 
the health and consequently on the usefulness of 
women have been made. In order to test these, a 
mass of statistics were gathered in 1887, by means 
of questions addressed to Oxford and Cambridge 
students, comparing each with the sister nearest in 
age to herself who had not been to college, i.e., who 
had had with that exception the same heredity and 
environment. The fact has thus been satisfactorily 
established that there is nothing in university educa- 
tion specially injurious to the constitution of women, 
or involving greater strain than they can ordinarily 
bear without injury. 

As for positive results, college education, by 
qualifying the woman teacher as she was never 
qualified before, has won her a status hitherto enjoyed 
only by the exceptionally gifted; and has asserted that 
for women also education is a science, and teaching 
a learned profession, not a mere trade. Statistics of 
Newnham College in November, 1894, showed that 
of its 720 past students, 374 were teaching, mainly 
at the high schools. Not only are college women 
doing what women have done hitherto better than 
it has been done before ; they are shaping new 
careers for women. Not to speak of the medical 
woman or the woman journalist, we may note feminine 
contributions to the organization of philanthropy, as, 
for instance, in the Women’s University Settlement 
at Southwark, or the valuable chapters by Miss 
Clara Collet, M.A. Lond., in Mr. Charles Booth’s 
“ Life and Labor of the London Poor.” In the 
field of pure scholarship again, Aberdeen has lately 
recognized the researches in classical archjeology of 
Miss Jane Harrison of Newnham, by making her an 
Hon. LL.D. Above all, experience shows that 
college women do not constitute a class by them- 
selves, out of sympathy with the rest of the com- 
munity, but take their place among their sisters as 
daughters, wives and mothers, who are thoroughly 
efficient because thoroughly trained labourers towards 
all that we all believe to be our highest good. 



A DAY IN LONDON. 

In this age of travel and books of travel, when, 
either by means of the accounts of others or through 
his own observation, everyone has some knowledge 
of all the important countries and cities of the world, 
it may appear superfluous to write for a journal like 
the Fortnightly, a paper with the above heading ; 
nevertheless, to those undergraduates who may be 
contemplating a visit to the Old World, as a sugges- 
tion of how time, when limited, may be husbanded, 



212 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



an account of the manner in which one day was spent 
in the great Metropolis may not be wholly unaccept- 
able. 

Starting at an early hour, we entered the Gower 
street station, and took train for Aldersgate street^ 
and in a few minutes we found ourselves in the heart of 
the city. To obtain some conception of the immense 
amount of business transacted, one requires to be in 
this region in the early morning, when the street, 
and lanes are thronged with the busy multitudes 
their hurried steps and eager faces betokening the 
great struggle in which they are engaged to gain a 
livelihood or add to the wealth already acquired. 

We then proceeded to the Tower of London, so 
interesting to the visitor, not only on account of its 
great age and its historical associations, but because 
of the wonderful collection of valuable mementoes 
which it contains. 

We were admitted to the Wakefield tower, the 
repository of the crown jewels, containing also the 
royal crown and sceptre coronation ampula and bap- 
tismal fonts. In the White Tower where Sir Walter 
Raleigh was imprisoned, and where he wrote his 
“ History of the World,” there was pointed out to us 
the place where the bones of the young princes are 
said to have been discovered. 

We also inspected the Beauchamp tower, where 
Anne Boleyn and Lady Jane Gray were imprisoned 
and Tower Green, where these two illustrious women, 
as well as many other persons equally renowned, were 
executed at the block. 

The Bell Tower is no longer open to the public. 

The Banqueting Hall is very interesting. Although 
it is now used as an armory, yet it speaks to us for- 
cibly of the past. It contains about 60,000 rifles. 
The upper floor is now a museum, containing multi- 
tudinous specimens of ancient weapons and armor, 
relics of great soldiers, instruments of torture. 

The utmost courtesy is extended to visitors by the 
officers around this grim historic place. The veteran 
who conducted us through it relates some very 
curious inquiries which are made by tourists, as “ Oh ! 
will you please show us the place where Mary Queen 
of Scots was beheaded.” 

An inspection of the new tower bridge was the 
next item on our day’s programme. This struc- 
ture is a marvelous exhibition of engineering skill. 
It relieves the other bridges over the Thames of many 
thousands of foot and carriage passengers each day. 
Taking the speediest mode of transit, we come next 
to Westminster Bridge, from w'hich a fine view is 
obtained of the Houses of Parliament, and from 
which also, though not so well here as from London 
Bridge, one may obtain some idea of the traffic on 
the muddy Thames below. 

Time was precious, and although we could long have 



lingered here, the bridge was crossed, and Westminster 
Abbey was in sight. No amount of reading can give 
us an adequate 'conception of the grandeur and beauty 
of this old church, and even were we to possess the 
clearest ideas concerning it, nothing else can supply 
the feeling of awe aroused by a visit to the historic 
pile. Two hours spent in that enchanting place, 
furnishing as it does so much material for soul-absorb- 
ing reflection, seem but a brief moment; but in that 
short time we were able to have a look over the entire 
building, with the exception of one or two parts, 
which were that day excluded from the public. 

But days might be spent here in profitable and 
delightful research. Here all the sovereigns of Eng- 
land, from Edward the Confessor to Her Majesty 
Queen Victoria, were crowned, and the dust of many 
of them lies within its tombs. 

Perhaps the most interesting are the chapels which 
no visitor should neglect to see. Each has its own 
individual history, and within lie buried royal person- 
ages, the sight of whose graves seems to invest our 
knowledge of the history of the times in which they 
lived with a reality not before felt. 

A few days later, on Sunday, we again repaired to 
the Abbey, and listened to a magnificent rendering of 
the service, besides hearing a powerful sermon from 
the lips of the new rector of St. Margaret’s, successor 
to Dr. Farrar, now Dean of Canterbury. 

There is no better or cheaper way of seeing the 
outside of the great Babylon, than by occupying an 
outside seat on one of the numerous ’buses, the large 
business done by which may be realized when we 
are told that in one year they accommodate a greater 
number of passengers than the entire population of 
the United States. The underground railway is a 
much faster mode of conveyance, and must be called 
into requisition by the tourist. It accommodates 
500,000 passengers per diem. Taking the ’bus then 
from Westminster Bridge, we pass through crowded 
thoroughfares, our courteous fellow-passenger beside 
us pointing out on every side objects of genuine 
interest. Exeter Hall, the headquarters of the London 
Y. M. C. A., and the Guild Hall, the Council Hall of 
the city of London each received a short visit, then 
the Bank of England, and a brief sojourn in that 
neighborhood, with a glance at the Royal Exchange 
and the Mansion House, and the first half of our day 
was well over. 

After lunch, the ’bus is again mounted and a new 
route taken. Leaving the “ Bank,” our course took the 
direction of Piccadilly, Knightbridge and Kensington 
Gore. On one side of the latter road is Hyde Park, with 
its broad acres of pleasure grounds, its fine trees, artifi- 
cial lake, and stately monuments. All classes of the 
people are to be found here, the very poorest enjoying 
as his right the advantages which the place affords. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



213 



while at certain hours of day the elite of English, 
society, with their magnificent horses and carriages 
throng the drive in Rotten Row The Albert Memo- 
rial, erected partly by public subscription at a cost of 
^120,000, is a worthy tribute to the memory of the 
Prince Consort. 

Kensington Palace is also seen, where Queen 
Victoria was born, where also she received the tidings 
of the death of Wm. IV, and her consequent accession 
to the throne. 

Alighting from the ’bus we visited the Orient, an 
exhibition of Eastern life and manners, on so grand a 
scale that it would be impossible to describe it. Here 
1,400 persons were to be seen on the stage at the same 
time, along with many animals of different kinds. 
The theatre itself is only a small part of the entertain- 
ment provided, for in the numerous halls and galleries, 
as no less in its adjoining gardens, no trouble or ex- 
pense is spared in order to make it as a place of 
amusement and recreation for London’s tired multi- 
tudes, entirely worthy of the city. 

Returning by the same route as far as one of the 
stations of the underground railway, we took train 
for Madame Tussaud’s establishment, containing the 
finest collection of wax works in the world. An extra 
payment admits one to the Chamber of Horrors, and 
to the Napoleon room where many interesting relics of 
the great General are to be seen. We then returned 
to ourstarting- point, which we reached before 6 o’clock 
and anxious to lose no time, we again set out after 
dinner. This time our journey was to be on foot, for 
we wished, like Dr. Johnson, to take “ a walk down 
Fleet street.” 

Traffic at this time of the day is much reduced, 
but more opportunity is thus afforded for reflection. 
The interest which attaches to this street is not so 
much of the present but of the past. Strolling not 
only along Fleet street itself, but diverging sometimes 
into the lanes and squares which adjoin it, one cannot 
but feel the charm which belongs to the neighbor- 
hood, when he remembers the names of that host of 
choice spirits which frequented it. Here met Johnson 
and Goldsmith. Here also Shakspere, Bacon, Jonson, 
Raleigh, Beaumont, Fielding, Blackstone, Cromwell, 
and how many other men of gi^at genius walked and 
talked. Then Ludgate Hill is reached, and at the 
top the awe-inspiring proportions of St. Paul’s confront 
us. When the countryman from York visited the city 
for the first time, and beheld St. Paul’s, he said to his 
wife : “See, there, lass, there be Paul’s church ; ecod, 
he be a soizable one, he be and another, breaking 
into verse, expressed himself thus : — 

“ I set up my horse, and walkt to St. Paul’s 
‘Lord,’ thought I, ‘ what a church is here !’ 

And then, I swore by all Christian souls 
Twas a mile long, or very neere.” 



It was too late to enter the building that night, but 
after standing for a few minutes in the gloaming of a 
beautiful May evening, the streets, now almost deserted, 
and “Big Paul” booming out the hour, one feels as he 
walks away that he has had enough for once ; he will 
reserve for another occasion his inspection of the 
interior. 

Retracing our steps along Fleet street, we come to 
the Strand, now truly presenting a gay scene, as it was 
the hour for the opening of the theatres. An hour 
or more was spent in one of these, and then we [>ass- 
ed into the brilliant region of Trafalgar square, Lei- 
cester square, Piccadilly, a crowded scene affording a 
glimpse of London life in more than one of its phases. 

The interest increases as we pass along Charing 
Cross road, then into Tottenham Court road. At this 
corner two men, one a would-be scientist, the other a 
Salvation Army captain, are arguing hotly concerning 
the opening chapters of Genesis, a crowd having 
gathered around to listen to the combatants. At the 
next angle we see two discuss in a practical manner 
the science of pugilism. Moving foward we hear the 
thumping of a street organ, and arrived at the spot we 
see a party of girls keeping step to the lively music. 

And again, arrived at another corner, the loud tones 
of a street preacher are heard as he addresses a 
motley throng, whose faces, seen by the glare of the 
gas-lamp, offer a study (although not of the most 
pleasant side) of human life and character. 

A few minutes more, and we arrive at our lodging 
on Euston square, wondering, with such an infinite 
variety of sights and scenes from which to select, 
what our programme for the morrow will be. 

J.A.C. 



THE CASE SYSTEM OF LP:GAL TEACHING. 

It is well perhaps for students of one institution, 
where certain methods of teaching are employed, to 
know something more or less of the methods used in 
other institutions. Many colleges are known be- 
cause of their employment of certain peculiar methods 
of instruction which have proved successful, and the 
reputation gained has stamped the mark of indivi- 
duality on the college. 

The unexpected results attending the introduction 
of the case system of legal teaching into Columbia 
Law School has converted many of those, who have 
so far been entirely opposed to the method, to a 
thorough belief in its future. The promoters of the 
case system could, a few years ago, be counted on 
one’s fingers, now the tide has turned, and the system 
has its firm believers in nearly all of the important 
law schools in the United States. This was espec- 
ially in evidence during the session prior to last vaca- 
tion, when several attempts were made by professors 



2I4 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



of different colleges to introduce the method into 
their classes. But prejudice to old time beliefs was 
too strong, and as at Cornell University Law Schooh 
it received in each instance a severe rebuke ; but in 
no case was it opposed on the ground of its incom- 
pleteness or incfficacy as a system. These several 
defeats will no doubt affect to a great measure the 
immediate extension of the use of this system, while 
on the other hand, each attempt to widen the field 
will undoubtedly bring the subject more prominently 
before the legal public, and, at least, a discussion will 
be maintained as to its merits and defects. 

In 1890, when Seth Low took the reins at Colum- 
bia College, and immediately commenced a renova- 
tion in the different affiliated departments, many ex- 
pressed the fear that the extensive introduction of 
new methods of teaching would end in nothing less 
than ruin for the old college ; but, happily, quite the 
contrary has been the result, and to-day, Columbia 
is upon a much firmer footing than she was five 
years ago. The one chief change was effected in the 
Law School, namely, the introduction of the case 
system of teaching upon similar lines as existed at 
Harvard University Law School. The Dwight Sys- 
tem, which had gained a wide reputation, was almost 
entirely discarded, and the more practical method was 
introduced, with a new staff of professors. Mr. William 
Keener, at that time Story Professor of Law at Har- 
vard, was called to the office of the deanship, and the 
other newly appointed members of the staff were 
selected from the foremost ranks of the legal profession 
in America. 

In a letter written to a young barrister in 1836 are 
the following words, which have a direct bearing on 
the subject under discussion. “ But no previous at- 
tention,” writes Mr. Calhoun, “can supersede the neces- 
sity of the minutest and closest attention to the case 
he may undertake after he is admitted to practice, 
both as to the facts and law. On this point the suc- 
cess of a lawyer depends. The study of particular 
cases is better adapted than anything else to give 
full and accurate legal knowledge.” This last sen- 
tence voices the basis on which the present case sys- 
tem was founded. 

The case system is substantially an inductive me- 
thod similar to that employed in the study of physi- 
cal science. Much depends upon the manner in which 
the student regards the cases which are brought to 
his observation. He must, in nine cases out of ten 
regard them as being reasonable applications of legal 
doctrines to real facts, and not as so many strained 
endeavors to apply in each instance certain rigid, 
rules, however ill they may fit. Certainly, there are 
some instances where the courts have been compelled, 
for want of an alternative, to force the foot in to the 
previously constructed shoe ; but these are excep- 



tions, and the principle laid down may be considered 
as general. 

The benefit to be derived from the system depends 
also in a great measure upon the care which has been 
used by the editors of the various case manuals which 
are used in the classes. The manuals employed in 
Columbia Law School are for the most part very 
carefully prepared. The cases are arranged under 
the different divisions and sub-divisions of the sub- 
ject, in chronological order, demonstrating, as one 
reads them successively, the history of the subject, 
and the influences brought to bear upon the common 
law from time to time by the creation of statutes. 
Texts have not altogether disappeared from the lists 
of books used in the courses. For instance, together 
with Bendick’s “ Cases on Torts,” the student must 
read the well known work of Sir Frederick Pollock of 
the University of Oxford, now so prominently before 
the public eye as England’s investigator in reference 
to Venezuela affairs. Again, Stephen on “ Common 
Law Pleading ” is used with Ames’ “ Cases on Plead- 
ing but in all other courses, case manuals only 
are used. 

“The best test of any method of teaching is that 
it shall actually teach ; that pupils who have gone 
out from one or more years of experience of it have 
found themselves effectively prepared for the work 
which lies before them in active life.” Until this 
practical test can be applied to Columbia graduates, 
it will be impossible to argue the merits of the case 
system, as it is conducted in that institution. A pro- 
minent New York lawyer was asked the other day, 
why it was, that students coming from the New York 
Law School were preferred by the older practitioners, 
to those from Columbia Law School. “ Why,” he 
answered, “it is simply because those graduating from 
Columbia know as much about the law as some of us 
who have been practising for twenty years, while 
those from New York Law School must enter an 
office, and learn to apply their theory like we did.” 

Sharon Graham. 



“HERE AND THERE A-WHEEL.” 

We — that is, my friend Charles Young and myself, 
— were finishing tea in the dining room of the cozy 
hotel at Cold Stream on the Hudson, and the wait- 
ress had just brought me a third glass of milk. She 
was evidently the landlord’s daughter, a pretty little 
thing, who asked you so entrancingly to have some 
more of something ; and left you with the sole desire 
of having another glimpse of her rosy cheeks and 
trim figure. This was my condition exactly, as we 
sat there near the open window ; and looked, past a 
long tow of canal boats moving slowly southward, 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



215 



across the Hudson to the pine-clad mountains sharply 
outlined against the glory of the setting sun. A 
feeling of drowsiness gradually came over me, and 
the beauty of the view faded from sight as mv own 
nature claimed her rest. During the night there 
came up the most severe thunderstorm — so said the 
oldest inhabitant — that has visited the place in forty 
years. Charles woke me up to hear how hard it 
rained, and I dreamed till morning that I was riding 
in ntud up to my knees. 

Seven o’clock saw us pedalling towards Fishkill 
village on the shore road. Only one who knows by 
experience can appreciate an early morning ride. 
The road was sometimes but a stone’s throw from 
the river whose ripples lapped the shore, and again it 
was cut around the face of a cliff, from w'hich vantage 
point we looked across the glassy surface of New- 
burg bay, and thought of the change since he who 
gave his name to the Rhine of America had anchored 
the ” Half Moon ” in those quiet waters, a Septem- 
ber morning in 1609. We gazed at old Storm King, 
and wondered whether it too had changed since the 
virgin forests about its base had given place to the 
cities and villages of the Empire State, 

If one wishes to indulge in quiet meditation, I can 
strongly recommend the wheel, for it is never restless 
or baulky (except upon a long hill), and will stand 
for any length of time. The thunder shower of the 
previous night had been a local one, and we soon 
rode out of its range. My chum might have insisted 
upon stopping at Poughkeepsie, had Vassar been 
in session ; but as it was not, we pedalled on by the 
Salt Point road through a beautiful rolling country; 
and Charles, who is a favorite with the ladies, was 
most fortunate in his choice of stopping places for milk. 
He invariably hit upon a farm house where there 
was a rosy -cheeked lassatthe dairy or in the kitchen. 
The farms and houses seemed thrifty and w'ell kept, 
and the milk — we did sample a few glasses — was of 
superior quality. There was a little excitement now 
and then, caused by the necessity of teaching mem- 
bers of the canine species that it does not pay to 
meddle with a wheelman’s lower extremities— and 
dogs, like some people, can only learn by experience, 
We stopped at Stamfordville that day for dinner ; 
and, if you will excuse me, I should like to say that 
should I live till my head has lost its last hair, I shall 
never forget the cherry pie we had. It was the kind 
of pie that a man tells his wife his mother used to 
make. 

That afternoon we met a funeral, and frightened 
the horses of the hearse, thereby bringing down upon 
ourselves the wrath of the whole village. We stopped 
for the night at South Egremont, Mass., a most 
^Jj3^j"0jiug little village. T. he sidewalks of white 
marble, from the neighboring quarries, bordered by 



spreading elms, and the white houses su’Tounded by 
terraced lawns gave a most restful and picturesque 
effect, while the broad, inviting piazzas of the Mt. 
Evrett House were indicative of the kindly hospitality 
furnished within. 

This is the story of one day’s run, and each day 
brings its quota of fine scenery, its exciting and 
ludicrous incidents, such as a little accident which 
happened to a friend of mine who was touring in 
the Delaware Water Gap. He was coasting down a 
grade and ran into a cow, was thrown upon the covv’s 
back, and thus mounted rode on down the hill. Give 
your imagination a little play, and you will laugh. 

At the risk of wearying you, I shall venture to tell 
you about one of the red letter days of our tour 

The June roses had faded since we had stopped at 
South Egremont ;and the grain and fruit of Septem- 
ber were ripe as, early one morning, we left Boston for 
Amherst. We wheeled out Beacon street, past the 
beautifully situated Chestnut hill reservoirs, on through 
Boston’s unsurpassed suburbs, Newton Centre, and 
Highlands, Welltsley, Natick, etc. The roads were 
perfect, the sun shining, and just enough breeze to 
temper its heat. The country, after leaving Worces- 
ter, gets more rugged ; and about three o’clock the 
sky clouded and the wind rose — fortunately at our 
backs. As a result, our wheels hummed under us ; 
and the hills grew less steep. At four o’clock we 
had covered seventy-seven miles, and had twenty- 
five to travel, when like a tornado the storm was 
upon us. In less time than it takes to tell it, we 
were drenched to the skin, and rode fully twenty 
minutes before we came to a house. Here a con- 
sultation was held, and Charles thought that we had 
better stop at that farm house ; but 1 called him a 
tenderfoot; and, as he declared that he wasn’t, we 
pushed on. Bitterly did he rue that decision at the 
end of the next hour. The rain increased, and the 
conversation, which had been — “ You always w^erepig- 
headed —to drag me on in this rain,” and “ Oh, well, 
you can’t get any wetter than you are, ’’etc. — en- 
tirely ceased. The roads became pools, about two 
inches deep in the horse track, and perhaps twice 
that in the wheel ruts. There, as we drove our 
wheels skidding, now into the ditch at the road side, 
now almost in collision in the middle, the rain not 
only poured down upon our backs, but the front 
wheels threw a shower of sand and spray in our faces. 
Our plight became desperate, and as we tore down 
the hills in a vain endeavor to make time, the water 
and sand flew about us as if we were splashing in the 
surf at Manhattan. Twice, our chains became so 
clogged that we were forced to stop to partially 
clean them, then on, on, through the gathering gloom. 
At half past six, darkness obscured the road ; and, 
though I had clinched my teeth and swore that we 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



2 16 



would reach Amherst if we had to swim, we stopped 
at the hotel in Enfield. 

Just here, I may give an additional reason why we 
were so determined to reach Amherst. We had 
shipped our baggage ahead, and our present outfit 
consisted of a tooth-brush and a razor apiece. 

We duly registered, and agreed with “ mine host ” 
to have our clothes dried, cleaned, and ready for us 
in the morning. After a rub down, we had tea in 
bed ; and during the evening, Charles read through 
the Boston paper of the previous day, while I perused 
the 1 884 health report for the county of Hampshire. 

The next morning we overslept ourselves, and it 
was seven o’clock when Charles opened the door to get 
our garments. Alas, to our surprise they were not 
there. We searched the room fora bell, but only 
succeeded in finding a lope ladder with instructions 
for use in case of fire. Our costume, or rather lack of 
it, would have rendered even such escape impossible. 

Charles opened the door just a little, and reaching 
out gave two or three vigorous knocks. This was 
repeated several times, but the only response was the 
echo dying away down the corridor. Then a bright 
idea struck “ me,” for under certain conditions a room 
may seem cold even in September, and this cold 
sensation spurred me on. We would stamp on the 
floor, and run the risk of the room below being a bed- 
room. At first, we stamped gently, and then with 
all our mijjht with both feet. We were almost in 
despair, when mine host appeared, apologizing, and 
promising that our clothes would be ready in five 
minutes, as the st.ibleman and his wife were trying 
their best to get the sand off. I verily believe that 
they took it off with flails or a threshing machine, 
for there are ridges on my coat collar even yet. After 
breaking our fast, we rode the remaining twelve miles 
to Amherst, where we were welcomed by my friends. 

Amherst is a little gem set in the hills of western 
Massachusetts. Here is Amherst college, also the 
State Agricultural college, while a few miles distant 
at Northampton is “ Smith’s,” one of the leading 
women’s institutions of the United States. 

Amherst college has about five hundred students, 
and the buildings are commandingly situated upon a 
long knoll. There is a fine athletic field, with a good 
quarter mile track and a modern grand stand, all the 
gift of Mr. Pratt of Brooklyn. 

From the clock tower of the main building the 
view is magnificent. You look across the valley of 
the Connecticut to the rolling hills, behind which old 
Sol hides his face every evening ; while north and 
south the river stretches away like a silver ribbon. 
On the east rises the rugged ridge over which we had 
ridden. Immediately below lies the village, its trees 
shading alike the substantial residence of the villager 
and the jaunty fraternity house. In front are the 



well kept fields of the agricultural college, whose 
buildings and broad lawns lie in a hollow. Alto- 
gether, Amherst is one of the most beautiful places 
created since the garden of Eden, and a proper 
description of its beauties is beyond the power of 
tongue or pen. 

A few days later, as we were riding along the banks 
of the peaceful Connecticut, Charles said — and I 
heartily agree with him — “Oh ! if people only knew 
how much of varied beauty there is within a few hun- 
dred miles of where they spend the summer, they would 
never remain for three months in the same place. If 
you have never toured — tour, and if you once tour, 
with each returning spring will come an aching in the 
bones and a longing of the eyes, which will only be 
allayed and satisfied when you are again upon the 
road. 

M. C. H. 

Arts ’98. 



SOCIETIES. 

THE UNDERGRADUATES LITERARY 
SOCIETY. 

Meeting of February 8th, 

Mr. Greene occupied the chair at this meeting of 
our Society. 

The members were disappointed by their reader 
and vocal soloist; but Mr. Scrimger, Arts ’96, read an 
exceedingly interesting essay on the “ Character of 
Macbeth.” Only five speeches were delivered on the 
Armenian Question, yet these showed unusual prepar- 
ation. Mr. Armstrong, Arts ’97, opened his speech 
by reading the Resolution : “ That on account of 

the outrages perpetrated on the Christians in Armenia, 
the Powers of Europe are justified in breaking up the 
Turkish Empire.” Mr. Armstrong pointed out that 
no government established on the Koran could ever 
be tolerated by Christian countries. Persecution be- 
ing an article of faith with the Mahometan, it was 
unnatural for him to tolerate heretical minorities. 
Furthermore, the political bad faith of the Porte was 
past endurance, and in support of this Mr. Armstrong 
cited some half dozen important treaties broken by 
the Turk. 

Mr. Trenholme, Arts ’97, followed as leader of the 
Negative. The Sultan was evidently no friend of this 
speaker, but as a cautious politician Mr. Trenholme 
looked beyond the necessary war, and feared the con- 
sequences of a partition of the Mussulman empire. 
From England s standpoint there seemed much to lose 
and little to gain. For example, if England were to 
hold Egypt, and Russia were given Constantinople, 
then the Tsar as Emperor of former Turkey would 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



217 



acquire spiritual control over millions of Mahometans 
in India, and so become a constant menace to 
English rule there. 

Mr. Willis, Arts ’97, used the “straw man ’’tactic of 
debate. The flimsy arguments in favor of arbitration 
and reasoning with the Impossible Turk were quickly 
demolished, and as the Eastern Question demanded a 
settlement, war seemed the only alternative. Being 
more optimistic than the previous speaker, Mr, Willis 
ventured to suggest a partition which would be 
acceptable to all the Powers. 

Mr. Gardner, Arts ’98, was the last speaker. The 
whole question received historical treatment at the 
hands of Mr. Gardner. A forecast of the probable 
slaughter and the inevitable ultimate advantage to 
Russia was pointed out. And now Mr. Gardner said he 
was coming to the vital point in the whole subject. 
Granted a successful war and Russian protectorate over 
the Mahometan provinces, was Russia worthy of such 
a trust } Ignoring her already too great strength 
in Europe, how had Russia treated minorities 
in the past ? How had she treated the Poles, how 
the Jews ^ What probable gain was there to Europe 
in handing over minorities to Russia .? There evi- 
dently could be none. Therefore, with this insufficient 
guarantee to minorities under Russia, Europe was not 
justified in bringing on the war, and hence the Porte 
must be'supported and yet compelled to maintain order 
at home. 

The meeting was evenly divided on the question^ 
The chairman gave his casting vote in favor of the 
negative arguments, 

Mr. Macmaster criticized the speakers in a very 
discriminating manner, and received the thanks of 
the speakers themselves. 

Report of Meeting held on February 15TH. 

Our committee evidently desires to have woman 
emancipated, and during this session if possible. The 
present report is concerned with the latest attempt in 
this line. The final resolution on this vexed question 
ran : “ That universal woman suffrage would be 

beneficial to Canada.” Several new aspects of the 
question were considered. Among these, not the least 
was the ground taken by the leader of the affirmative 
side. Mr. Saxe, Arts ’97, claimed that the resolution 
was a self-evident truth, and therefore he required his 
opponents to adduce proof that Canada would not 
benefit by the change. Mr. Saxe went into the ene- 
mies’ country, and found three arguments usually 
brought up against the women. After showing these to 
be illogical, the speaker warned his audience against 
the eloquence and verbiage which he was sure would 
tend to conceal the fallacies of his opponents’ reason- 
ing. Mr. Saxe was heartily applauded on a very 
witty speech. 



Mr. E, M. Campbell, Arts ’97, apparently felt little 
hesitation in coming after Mr. Saxe. He pitied his 
opponent for having taken a false position in opening 
the debate. He refused utterly to admit that the 
ofius probandi lay with the negative ; niore than that, 
the arguments discussed by the former speaker had 
not been assailfed, and would yet win the debate. 

Mr. Greig, Arts ’99, and Mr. Colby, Arts ’98, were 
the two remaining supporters of Mr. Saxe ; while Mr. 
Worth, Arts ’98, and Mr. Patch, Arts ’99, emphasized 
the arguments of Mr. Campbell. Of these gent'emen, 
Mr. Worth seemed most to enjoy the debate. He was 
pi epared to defend certain grounds, and nothing turned 
him aside from his original plan, although his argu- 
ments had already been considered. 

When Mr. Saxe arose the second time to speak, he 
was evidently well pleased with his side. Naturally 
he commented on the fact that the whole debate had 
fallen into the lines laid down in his opening speech. 
In pointing his own arguments, Mr. Saxe drew proof 
from such reliable sources as Logic, Psychology, 
Mechanics, Sociology and the Star Almanac, Mr, 
Campbell closed the debate as briefly as possible, 
owing to the difficulty he found in speaking with 
a sore throat. Despite the versatility and eloquence of 
the ladies’ champions, the meeting gave the majority 
its support to the negative. 

Mr. Robertson, Arts ’96, criticized the evening’s 
entertainment, and at the close of his official remarks 
gave a short report of the debate against Varsity. 
Both delegates had enjoyed their trip and debate 
to the utmost. Their hearing was most flattering, 
and the debate had been so well reported in Varsity ^ 
that it was to be sent in toto to the Fortnightly. 



MONTREAL VETERINARY MEDICAL 
ASSOCIATION. 

The last regular meeting was held in the Library, 
on Thursday evening, the 20th inst. Prof. D. Mc- 
Eachran presiding. 

Minutes of previous meeting were read and adopt- 
ed. The librarian reported the addition to the library 
of several new works bearing on professional subjects. 

On motion of Mr. Kee, a committee was appointed 
to draft resolutions of condolence on the death of Dr. 
Donald Campbell, ’82, and forward the same to the 
family of the deceased. 

Dr. Dawes and Messrs. Kee and Ness were named 
as the committee. 

Mr. Fred. W. Kee furnished a case report of more 
than ordinary interest. The subject was “ Suppurative 
Mediastino-pericarditis,” and led to a spirited discus- 
sion on other thoracic diseases. 

Horse Breeding was the subject of a paper by Mr. 
J. Anderson Ness. Its treatment by the essayist in 



2i8 



McGill fortnightlV, 



dicated a thorough acquaintance with the subject, and 
the manner of presentation was appreciated by all. 

The chairman followed with instructive remarks 
based on his own experience. He gave a brief his- 
torical resume of the origin of the French Canadian 
horse. 

Messrs. Higgins and Morris were appointed to act 
on the experiment committee, and the meeting ad- 
journed. 

H. D. 



McGILL Y. M. C. A. 

“The Ideals of Christ” was the subject of an 
address by Professor J. Clark Murray, before our 
Association on Sunday, February 23rd. It was 
perhaps the largest meeting yet held, and the inter- 
est and pleasure with which his words were listened 
to were very evident. Others besides students availed 
themselves of the opportunity to hear the doctor 
speak on this, which is one of his favorite themes, and 
such are always welcome. 

We shall not attempt to give any synopsis of his 
address. We feel sure that the impressions made 
will be lasting. 

Next Sunday, Mr. Tory will have charge of the 
meeting, and on March 8th Sir Wm. Dawson will 
again speak. 



McGILL MINING SOCIETY. 

The usual fortnightly meeting was held on Friday, 
February 14th. 

The attendance was not as large as usual, owing 
perhaps in some degree to the fact that “ Sups ” 
occurred on Saturday morning. 

The paper was one on “The* Gold Mines of Nova 
Scotia,” by Mr. Jno. E. Hardman, our new Professor 
of Mining in McGill. The paper went into theoreti- 
cal principles as well as practical details, and was a 
treat to those present. It is sure to be of great value 
to any who will have anything to do in future with 
gold mining in Nova Scotia, A vote of thanks to 
Mr, Hardman was then passed, and the meeting 
adjourned. 



DELTA SIGMA SOCIETY. 

The members of the Delta Sigma Society have to 
thank Mr. Nevil Norton Evans for a most entertain- 
ing lecture on a trip through Southern Germany and 
Switzerland. We were all fascinated by his account 
of Niirnburg, with its old Tower, where the Iron 
Maiden, once the cruellest of her sex, still lingers • 
and with its market place, where the old market- 
women sit with their wares spread round them under 



white umbrellas ; and Munich, hortie of music and 
beer gardens ; and Zurich, with its magnificent post 
office, where it is said that anything from a letter to 
a grand piano can be posted, if only it is stamped. 

But loveliest of all were the views of the mountains, 
the Jungfrau with its virgin purity of snow, the Mat- 
terhorn, the Rigi, and others whose names are 
known to all. The verses with which the lecturer 
closed sent us away longing to visit the land of 
mountain and valley, of stalwart men and devoted 
women. 



GLASS REPORTS. 



SCIENCE NOTES. 

Our Drive. 

It was cold, bitterly cold, at 7 p.m. on the 17th 
February, but that did not hinder the Science Students, 
to the number of 120, from gathering at the College 
pates, to start for their annual drive to the Athletic 
Club House. While waiting for the sleighs, the boys 
gave a grand exhibition of their lung power. It was 
an awful noise. However, it amused the boys and kept 
them warm, and harmed no one. Five large sleighs 
were quickly loaded and on the way. There was 
not so much noise as usual, as the frost was so intense 
that it froze the sound in the horns, and to blow was 
but a waste of breath. All arrived safely, as no one 
was hurt by the cleverly clumsy driver of one of the 
sleighs, who upset his load just outside the Club 
House gate. 

In the Club House all was warm and bright, and 
while waiting for dinner to be served, a game of 
basket ball was indulged in by some 75 players. The 
progress of game showed that our fellows know more 
about Rugby football than they do of basket ball. 
One thing everyone forgot was, that there is such a 
thing as “off side ” in Rugby. 

In the midst of a grand scrimmage, dinner was 
announced, and the game was stopped. No baskets 
had been scored. On the way downstairs one of the 
players remarked: “I’m not really as cross-eyed 
as a look at my glasses indicate.” 

At dinner each Year had its own table. 

Between times there was lots of yelling— College 
yell. Faculty yell. Year yell, and individual yell, all 
were called into use. And though very much to the 
front, they never interfered with the real business of 
the hour, getting a good full meal. This being 
secured. President Walkem called for order, and after 
some time secured enough quiet to commence the toast 
list. The Queen’s health was drunk with all the 
honors, and to the tune of “ What’s-the-matter-with 
-Her-Majesty-Oh-she s-all-right,” and all the rest 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 




if it. Alma Mater, The Faculty, Dean, and Professors 
were then remembered. Regret was expressed that 
the professors were not present in a body, and their 
absence ascribed to the very cold weather. 

G. R. McLeod proposed the toast, and Prof. Guest 
responded. F. Rutherford proposed “Sister Faculties,” 
with a reference to the “ Sisters ” Faculty. This was 
replied to by Mr. Leroy on behalf of the Arts Faculty, 
the only other P'aculty represented. 

The toast to the Undergraduates, proposed by Mr. 
Brodie, B.A.Sc., produced something out of the 
usual run of after-dinner speeches by way of res- 
ponse. 

Each speaker laid particular stress on the fact that 
his year was the best that had ever been in college ; 
had been most successful in “ scrapping,” studying, 
and in all that makes a class popular in college. 

It is wonderful how many battles, bloodless and 
otherwise, have been fought and won, by both sides, 
in the last four years. G. G. Hare, ’96, R. Balfour, 
* 97 > A. Laurie, ’98, were the speakers. 

The “ Freshmen ” were toasted separately, being 
too green to toast along with the more seasoned older 
Years. They were quite satisfied wit h themselves, 
and N. McLeod, who spoke for them, said so. 

One of their number had won the individual 
trophy on Sports Day. 

Songs were sung by H. E. Huestis and O. S. P'innie, 
all joining in the chorus in a very spirited manner, 
W. T. Chamberlin contributed two flute solos. 
Health were drunk in honor of the Ladies, the Gra- 
duating Class, Sports and the Chairman, In the large 
hall, basket ball was again indulged in by selected 
teams with better success, as regards scoring, than in 
the grand match before dinner. 

The tug-of'War was scarcely a success. The floor 
was so slippery and the teams varied so much from 
time to time, as the on-lookers always insisted in 
helping the losing team, what promised a brilliant 
victory one instant was the next one as brilliant a vic- 
tory for the other side — but only for an instant. 
Several showed their proficiency in “ the manly art 
of self-defence.” 

Harry Hue.stis, the acrobat of ’96, gave an exhibi- 
tion of tumbling, that filled in all the blanks on the 
programme. He received well merited rounds of 
applause for his feats — all of which were to slow 
music. Dancing was indulged in by some. 

The Club House was left in quietness about mid- 
night, and the drive home was by way of Notre 
Dame de Grace and Westmount to the College gates, 
where, after singing Old Lang Syne, the boys went 
home. 

As it was their first ofTence, the Freshies were 
excused from lectures until 1 1 o’clock next morning. 



519 



“Who has forgotten his first year’s Mechanics” 
Surely not the Dean ! ! ! 



Hydraulic Lab. Saturday, I2 M. 

Prof. — (Calling roll.) 

W 1. “ Here, Sir.” 

J q s. No reply. 

Prof. — (Sotto voce) “ Gone as usual.” 



Third Year. 



“ Who is getting the doughnuts ? ” 
“ I doughnut know.” 



Prof. — “ This Boyle’s Law” (pauses) 

Student (who has not looked in the book). — “How 
can law be boiled ? ” 



Had Cinderella anything to do with Ash Wed- 
nes lay ? 

M b n (as P r is about to slope). — 

“ Are you going to take a sneak ? ” 

P r. — “No, I’m going to leave you where you 

are .? ” 



Since last issue some one has solved the problem 
“ Find the amount of work done by ’97 during the 
present term. ” But the integration formulae are so 
complicated that it would tire the general public to 
read it. The amount of time equals 5 hours approx. 



We much regret to hear that Mr. F. W. Thompson 
of ’97 is obliged to leave the college through ill health. 
He will spend the remainder of the winter months in 
the Adirondacks or in Colorado. Needless to say 
Fred, will be very much missed by his class mates. 

ARTS NOTES. 

Fourth Year. 

Who talks about the strife between Religion and 
Science ? Let him ponder the following quotation : 
“ The temperature rises at the rate of i° Fah. in every 
64 feet, as we descend deeper and deeper into the 
crust of the earth. If we went on for 50 miles we 
would have a temperature of 4,600^^ Fah. So you see 
we would eventually get to a pretty hot placeP 

We are told by the Prof, of Geology that certain 
fossils which resemble cork-screws are so abundant 
in a certain region that it looks as if there had been 
‘‘ one of these great dinners ” there, and every one of 
the guests had left his cork-screw behind him. 



220 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Inquisitive Partial ^ — “ Hello, what are those ?” 
Class Sec , — “Tickets for “Pinafore.” Do you 
want one ?” 

Inq. Partial . — “ What’s a pinafore ? ” 

Voice . — “ It’s a baby’s bib.” 

Exit Partial, with the remark that he does not want 
one. 



A scene described in the Geology class : — China- 
man washing clothes in a natural hot- water basin in 
the Yellowstone National Park. The spring sud- 
denly develops into a geyser and blows the celestial, 
his tent, etc., up into the air. He descends, gathers 
his scattered belongings, and decamps. “ That sounds 
like a Guy, Sir I' 

Our representative to “ Varsity ” reports a most 
enjoyable time. He is elated over the entertainment 
he met with, and votes “ Varsity ” a loving sister of 
McGill. 

We congratulate the First, Second and Third 
Years on their choice of representatives for the 
Fortnightly for next session. 

With Mr. Archibald as Editor and Mr. Heine as 
Business Manager, the students in Arts may feel con- 
fident that they will be satisfactorily represented on 
the new Board. 



Third Year. 

Incidental to the Rhetoric lectures on the Drama, 
it might not be amiss to quote from a comedy re- 
cently enacted by the following cast : — 

A young lady 
A bright junior 

Scene — a sofa. Time — lo P.M. 

Y.L . — “ What part of speech is a kiss t ” 

B ./. — “A conjunction.” 

Y.L . — “Yes and my grammar says 

that a conjunction cannot be declined.” 



Prof. M. — the other day, after pointing out the 
etymological value of words ending in — ster, quite in- 
nocently remarked ; “ Thus, gejitlemen, a spinster is a 
valuable relic.” 



The committee in charge of the Dinner for ’97 de- 
cided that for many reasons it would be better to 
postpone it until after the examinations. Then, boys, 
if we have any spirits left in us, we will gather around 
the festive board and have a rousing good time. 

Members of other Years will be edified to hear 
that the conocephalongentalis whyancorealissima is 
a very small bug, almost invisible in fact. 



It reminds us of one of the verses of a topical song 
entitled “Climb up to the skies.’’ 

“ May the man who crams our brains with 
Words a mile in length 
Learn the naming of one blossom 
Saps up all our strength. 

May he learn that convolvulus 
Mighicraziae 

Goes on climbing, climbing ever 
Just as well as he.^^ 

Chorus ; “ Climb up, etc.^^ 



The Honor Class in Natural Science received as 
a Valentine — present — one hundred and twenty- 
seven new minerals. 

They think that in former years they have re- 
ceived presents which they liked better. 



Second Year. 

Profesior . — “What is the nature of that condition, 
Mr. H. ? ” 

Student (who has been sparring with his neighbor). 
— “ Er-r-r-r-r-r- ! ” 

Professor . — “A condition of inattention, I presume, 
gentlemen.” 

Several ’98 men have been bothered a great deal 
by the clamors of our Freshies that they could pla}^ 
hockey as well and better than all the Sophs put 
together. So, the other evening, our heroes laid aside 
their books, and under the leadership of the mighty 
Mr. Bishop they played for a time with the infants, 
and found it as easy to shoot the puck through the 
goal keeper as it is for a cathode ray to shoot through 
the slide of a plate holder. After eight goals our 
boys began to suspect that the goal keeper was an 
optical delusion, and stopped. 

N.B. — The Freshies were allowed to score twice in 
order to encourage them. 



Suggestion . — In view of the fact that the Dean of 
Arts has erected the Prince of Wales feather on his 
residence, that he also adopt the motto accompany- 
ing it. 



We are glad welcome to our Year Mr. John C. 
Bruce, late of Arts ’97. Mr. Bruce has had a most 
successful career in college, and while we all regret 
his recent illness, we are glad of opportunity to add 
another star to the galaxy of ’98. 



There is considerable agitation in our Year over 
the class photo which will be taken in ’98. That set 
smile has already made its appearance, and the hon- 
ing of razors is heardin the land. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



221 



First Year. 

D n, translating : 

“ Melle soporatam * ^ * *ofifani obiicit.” 

“ She threw a cake of soap,” 

Can this be a classical reference to “Good morning, 
have you used ? etc. ” 



Who says a “ flock ” of cattle and “ herd ” of 
birds 

Dr. A. informs us that he has known people to 
live for a considerable length of time in spite of the 
fact that they indulged in a certain well known poison 
— tobacco. 



We beg to remind the Sophs that their success at 
recent hockey match was due to the poor play of 
the Freshmen and not to their good play. ’98 
always blow their own horn, and we excuse their 
crowing over this little success. Let them remember 
that pride sometimes takes a fall. 



MEDICAL NOTES. 

The Presentation to Cook. 

On Thursday, February 13th, one of the most im- 
posing ceremonies that has ever been witnessed 
within the hallowed precincts of the medical build- 
ing was piously carried out by the First and Second 
Years. 

Cook ! The Cook ! The only Cook ! The 
expounder of the law ! The silver-toned Deity, 
around whom the entire solar system of the Medical 
Faculty revolves, was honored. 

Borne high above the heads of the cheering popu- 
lace — the First and Second Years — seated in his mag- 
nificently decorated sedan chair, amid the delicate 
perfume of the dissecting room, his tall and com- 
manding figure was most impressive. Solemnly and 
slow, in time with the music of the wind through 
Tobiiis Tubes, he was carried to the spacious marble 
tiled hall — Lecture room No. 3 — and seated in 
majesty upon the throne — the desk. Amid tumul- 
tuous cheers, mingled with the Indian whoops of the 
Freshmen, he bowed serenely and graciously to his 
minions, and said, “ Let her go ! ” “ And she went.” 

A mighty silence now fell upon the assembled 
multitude. Naught disturbed the quiet save the 
stridulous breathing of the sedan carriers. At length 
the orator of the day, Fox, arose, and delivered the 
address on behalf of the students. It was written in 
terse, compact style, and was only ii ft. 7 in. in 
length. This finished amid loud huzzas, he com- 
manded the precious casket -a beer keg— to be pro- 



duced. It was rolled in. “Unfold the priceless 
gems and the store of fine gold ! ” he ordered. It 
was unfolded — that is, the head knocked in, and Cook 
gazed in wonder upon the gems- -a heterogeneous 
collection of disabled and wasted bungdowns amount- 
ing to many dollars. A pair of smoked glasses had 
been provided so that his eyes 'would not be injured 
by the sight. 

Amid loud enquiries as to “ what was the matter 
with Cook,” and satisfactory answers to the same, the 
“ Guardian angel of the Chamber of Horrors ” aro'e. 
Smooth as a stream of liquid mud, or a newly maca- 
damized road, a flood of eloquence poured from his 
inspired lips. His sweet, low voice, “ like unto one 
crying in the wilderness,” charmed the ear, and rup- 
tured several mastoid cells. lambics and dactyls, in 
measured cadence, shattered the helpless air, even the 
wind amid the whiskers of the Fourth Year died 
away to listen in ecstasy to music “ sweeter far” than 
its own. Many a tear flowed from eyes hitherto un- 
known to weep. Many a vow to do better in the 
future was breathed by the Freshmen, as they dis- 
persed to the Oxford and other places of worship. 

We have been fortunate enough to obtain copies 
of both the address and the reply for the Fort- 
nightly. 



THE address. 

To the most Illustrious, 

The Earl of Golgotha, 

KNIGHT (and day) COMMANDER 
Of the Lavatory. 

Companion, if not of Michael, at least of George. 

Following in the footsteps of the generations which 
have preceded us, and animated by a desire to imi- 
tate all their virtues while we abjure their vices, it is 
appropriate that at this season we should take the 
opportunity of extending to you the united good 
wishes of the First and Second Years, accompanied by 
a more tangible recognition of those many virtues 
which have rendered the name of Cook not only a 
household word throughout the length and breadth 
of this Continent, but one of the sweetest and most 
fragrant reminiscences of early childhood. 

Not one of us is there present who does not recol- 
lect with what vague doubts and apprehension, what 
unspeakable emotion — not unmixed with awe, — we 
first intruded on the sphere of your domain, nor 
shall we ever forget the sense of beatific calm and 
reassurance which stole along our vaso-motor s stem 
upon gazing into your paternal retina, and listening 
to those dulcet and soporific tones which cause tl.e 
whiskers of our Agrarian cousins to vibrate in sympa- 



222 



McGlLL FORTNIGHTLY 




thetic unison and awaken a responsive echo in the 
cerebral vacuum of our civic brethren. 

Whilst you have had the advantage of becoming 
familiar with many classes of Medicine in the years 
which have preceded us, it must be a source of great 
satisfaction to you that you have been accorded the 
privilege of coming in contact with those beauties of 
mind and of form, those rare traits of character and 
intellect, that perfect unison of psychic and physical 
attributes embodied in the members of the present 
First and Second Years, 

Believe us, we feel very deeply the onus of maiii' 
taining the lofty degree of morality, sobriety and intel- 
lectual culture which has hitherto punctuated our 
career, and which has led us to be recognized as the 
Optimus Annus of this Faculty ; and if it should hap- 
pen that anytime we should lapse into more tortuous 
paths, it will be because in our perfection we are 
magnanimous, and wish not to place too high a stan- 
dard of morality for the emulation of our successors. 

In your capacity as occupant of the 'lelepJionic 
Chair in this Faculty, we have a few innocuous inter- 
polations to bring to your consideration, and trust 
that you will influence your coadjutors as to have the 
following suggestions perfected. We think that it 
would be advantageous if a free barber shop could be 
opened as expeditiously as possible on the College 
grounds for the benefit of the Third and Fourth 
Y ears. 

Also, that in event of future cold weather, and 
heating arrangements being the same as during the 
last season of rigor, either buffalo robes be provided, 
or a liberal supply of Hg O H. — Scotch variety 
preferred. 

The Stool Question. — As there is a searcity of stools 
in the dissecting room, we would suggest that surcin- 
gles be provided, in order that an indissoluble anas- 
tomoses may be secured between the individual stu- 
dent and this article of furniture., This is a stern 
necessity. 

We also take this opportunity to thank you for the 
kind loan of your tin-lined portmanteau, in which 
nightly repose our wearied limbs in not wholly 
unchecked liberty, and have to attest to the fidelity 
of St. George, your Grand Master of the Seals, in 
the discharge of his many varied and juicy functions. 

Finally, we would commend to your paternal care 
that galaxy of incipient adolescence which decorates 
the posterior superior eminences of this Theatre, and 
trust that in your reply you will extend to them some 
of that wholesome advice in reference to morals and 
temperance which one of your lurid and variegated 
experience is so well qualified to administer. 

(Signed) Tim Panum, 

(for P'irst and Second Years.) 
McGill, P'ebruary 13, 1896. 



THE REPLY. 

Oh, my Children of the Scalpel. Oh, my Pestle Knights so wise. 
Kids, by paths, of knowledge grazing — I’m quite taken by surprise. 
This tribute of affection to my virtue and my worth 
Is as unexpected wholly as the taxes or your birth. 

I have hearkened to your sentiments and sparkling gems of thought ; 
Such expressions of affection may be earned but never bought. 

And as attempt to public speech with me is quite absurd, 

I’ll simply now express my thanks — though impotent the word. 

I’m glad that you appreciate my whispers of advice 
When first the FRONT door steps you mount — you rarely do it 
twice — , 

But this is always for your weal, and be it understood 

Your freshness must be tempered here, and Cookie does it good. 

There are phases in the cycle of your brief collegiate classes, 

When some of you behave like geese and some of you like asses, 

’Tis then, when half the class will hiss, whilst others ply their heels 
That sapient B. A.’s tap the head and gently murmur “ wheels 
But, as when butterflies appear, the chrysalis is cast 
These frailties of youthful minds will disappear at last. 

I was present at your dinner, and of all the things I heard 
Of the ballads and the speeches, our Hugh Frazer’s was the “bird.” 
His modest mien, his full-toned voice, his rounded phrases drew 
New Sulci on the brains of those whom he addressed them to, 

And as we cheered him to the sky, as only Medicine can 
We felt we had an orator, a hero, and a man. 

His prayer for a Gymnasium to be on the College ground 
We trust will touch some Croesus with a hard metallic sound. 

With that our present Football Team would have an “ air-tight 
sinch 

When next they meet Toronto or with the Ottawas clinch. 

Perhaps we’d have a hockey team — let’s hope for this next year ; 

Wliile Cookie, like a snow-bird, will glide o^er the glassy mere. 

Now I think that I have touched upon all subjects of the day. 
Excepting of the weather, and of this I have to say : 

That when the Ides of March appear, and mental effort lags. 

And pains from study “ wring the brow ” — not those produced by 
jags— 

Or if by fell neuralgia in the humid Spring you’re caught. 

And chaos threatens order in your glittering dome of thought. 

Then come to me, your “ papa,” and with true Svengali leer, 

I’ll lure the ache from out your brow and place it in my ear. 

Before I close, a passing word, an incident to mark, 

A good firm hand has lately come to guide our College bark ; 

Our future home beyond the skies no longer is uncertain, 

St. Peter’s Key to Heaven we’ve got to thrust aside the curtain. 

But whence St. Peter’s Key, quoth you, since Peter is not come, 
llis deputy is here, I say — have we not Peter(’s) son? 

I now conclude, my beauteous youths, keep up your preparation. 

Cook’s hearty sympathy is yours in your examination. 

Henceforth as clustering annuals about my brow entwine, 

No brighter garland there shall wreathe than Ninety-eight and Ninety- 
nine. 



Fourth Year. 

The oil dealers are doing a good trade, and the gas 
metre fiend is in his glory — the Fourth Year exams 
are drawing nigh. 



In speaking of the Dinner, we unfortunately over- 
looked Mr. Tupper, who so ably filled the position 
of delegate for Medicine on the commitee. We feel 
sure that the whole Faculty will concur with us in 
thanking him most heartily for the time spent on 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



behalf of the Medical Students. We wish also to 
apologize for the tardy recognition of his services. 



Any student wishing change will please call on 
Cook. He is well heeled at present. 



The character group of the Fourth Year is now for 
sale. It is a very cleverly arranged picture, and hits 
off many of the men beautifully. 



Third Year. 

We are glad to note that W. H. Thomas is able to 
attend lectures again, 



J. A. Tierney has been indisposed for a few days. 



We hope to see Mr. Von Eberts in his place again 
soon. 



G. S. Gordon took in the social events at the 
Capital for a week. He attended the historical ball, 
and enjoyed himself immensely. He says the Conserv- 
ative party have now a good chance of being returned 
to power. 



The Class presented H. G. Campbell with a token 
of their esteem on the eve of his departure. 



Charlie C — had better forego some of his numerous 
social engagements, as the exams are coming on. ^ 



A number of the boys are taking skirt dancing. Jim 
and Stan, are all right on a straight line, but the turns 
bother them. 



It is currently reported that the “ bald-headed 
row ” were among the guests at a social event that 
took place on St. Valentine’s night. We are informed 
that one “ took the cake ”, and that one with bright 
eyes was superb. 



Second Year. 

Several complaints have been made th.it Second 
Year reports of late have been conspicuous for their 
absence. While recognizing this fact, the reporter 



223 



deems this condition of things to be in accordance 
with the interests of the Year, as his conscience will not 
permit him to intrude on their valuable time, which 
might be spent with much more profit in solving the 
mysteries of the 5th cranial nerve and pelvic fascia. 

Elaborate preparations are being made for the 
final (i*) exams in Anatomy. The fad of collecting 
autographs of the demonstrators in still being kept up 
with a great amount of zeal, and dissecting cards are 
filling up rapidly. The hard-worked Soph is inclined 
to think that “ Life is one d tmn\i\on grmd.” 

It is a pleasure to note that the plea to Mr. Cook 
for more stools in the dissecting room met with such 
a ready response. 



COMPARATIVE MEDICINE CLASS RE- 
PORTS. 

At the meeting held for the purpose of electing 
officers for the Fortnightly, Mr. B. A. Sugden was 
the unopposed candidate for Faculty Editor, and Mr. 
J. C. Moore for Business Manager. 

The Faculty is to be congratulated on their selec- 
tion, and we predict for the Fortnightly a good 
representation. 

May they be as wise in their selection of class 
reporters when that matter comes before them. 



Assignments for the benefit of creditors are the 
order of the day among Final Year men. 



The class picture is the all-absorbing topic of con- 
versation these days. 



Dear reader, when you see a would-be joke in these 
columns, do not imagine that it is directed towards 
yourself. Remember “Theyer are others,” as the 
poet says. 



Jimmy is the only one of us who can boast of the 
receipt of a valentine. 

We would suggest to certain of the so-called 
Juniors the advisability of adding a post-mortem 
case to their list when ordering instruments. 



The Hebrew element largely predominates in the 

graduating (i*) class. Erni, Benni and Harri any 

more ? 



Second Year. 

It is a great pity that the oratorical abilities of the 
Third Year are not more evenly distributed among 
the members of the class, instead of being the sole 
possession of one (i*) individual. 



224 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



We hear that a member of the Second Year in- 
tends challenging the champion of the ‘‘ Maher- 
Fitzsimmons Fight.” We offer a word of warning. 



What is the matter with K ’s nose ? 



FEATHERS FROM THE EAST WING. 
Fourth Year. 

It is well known among our graduates that, last 
spring. Miss Donalda McFee, B.A., obtained the 
degree of Ph.D. at the University of Zurich, but we 
feel sure many of our undergraduates have as yet 
not heard of it, nor has it been mentioned in the 
paper of her Alma Mater. Miss McFee was a mem- 
ber of the pioneer class of women at McGill, and 
graduated in 1888 with First Rank Honors in Phi- 
losophy. She then went to Cornell to continue her 
philosophical studies ; thence to Leipzig, in 1891, and 
two years later to Zurich, where she wrote the thesis, 
“ Berkeley’s breneTheorie des Sehens,” for which the 
degree was granted. Late as it is, we would con- 
gratulate her most warmly on her splendid career, 
and wish her all future success. 

On reading this, one of our wags insists upon ad- 
ding 

Lives of wom^n such as this one 
Leave this foot- print in the sand ; 

German thesis may be written 
Even by a female hand.” 



By the time a Donalda has attained the dignity of 
a Senior, one might reasonably expect some slight 
familiarity with the subjects of her Honor Course. 
But such is not the case with some of the class of 
’96. One of the most illustrious of that Yean 
when asked to define a simple Latin word, could only 
do so by giving a practical illustration. Another 
member of the Year has been severely criticized by 
one of ’99 for her inability to furnish the French 
equivalent for some college slang. 



Scene in Honor History : The students are 

writing industriously with their thoughts far away in 
sunny France with the Duede Guise, when suddenly 
they are brought back to cold and snow clad 
Canada, for lo! the roof opens, a ladder is plunged 
into their midst, and a pair of stoutly clad legs ap- 
pear upon it. There soon follows the rest of some 
“ horny-handed son of toil, ” bearing, not as they, 
scarcely awakened, expected, a lightly poised lance or 
a flashing sabre, but a shovel and a pipe. As all 
this descended, the figure seemed to say : “ Life is 
real, life is earnest, my young friends, and you must 



remember there are roofs to be shovelled, which, to 
my mind, is a much better occupation than to be as- 
sassinating and murdering all one’s fellow-men, as 
those old French fellows did whom you admire.” 

We read the other day of a man awaking with 
screams from a nightmare in which he thought his 
little son was “a minus quantity under the radical 
sign, and he could not get him out." 



Senior (to junior who has been studying Physio- 
lofjy)- — “Just feel my muscle. What kind of fibre do 
you think that is 

Junior . — “ Striped fibre, of course.” 

Senior. — “No ; fibre chamois.” 



Third Year. 

On the 15th inst., the members of the Third Year 
assembled at the University Club for their annual 
lunch. To them belongs the credit of first utilizing 
the benefits afforded by the new institution, and the 
result has been more than satisfactory. This has been 
the most enjoyable of all their lunches, and perhaps 
it was owing to the absence of formality, for nobody 
was made unhappy by the thought of her impending 
speech, yet their friends were by no means forgotten 
in the impromptu and enthusiastic toasting. 

Donaldas ’97 are already looking forward to an 
event of the same kind next year. 



Third Year Donalda. — “A what are you 

reading 

A . — “Please don’t laugh. It is a com- 

mentary on Micah.” 

Third Year Donalda.— “ What’s Micah .? Oh! I 
know. That’s what they put in hall stoves, isn’t it 



Second Year. 

The Sophomore class-lunch came off on Shrove 
Tuesday. Contrary to time-honored custom, it was 
held, not in the College, but at the University Club. 
By this arrangement much trouble was spared, and 
the lunch, from a culinary point of view, was all that 
could have been desired. Thanks to the decoration 
committee, the table was very prettily adon ed with 
flowers. At first a shadow was cast over the' as- 
sembly by the announcement that we numbered 
thirteen. The gloom deepened when our President 
interpreted this as foreboding not death but a 
pluck to one of us. But by degrees cheerfulness 
was restored, and when it was time for the President 



McGILL FORTIGHNTLY. 225 



to reply to the toast to the about-to-be-fatal examina- 
tions, we had become quite hilarious. Among the 
impromptu toasts was one to our class officers 
and another to the absent members. The second 
toast almost included the first, for of our four officers 
three were unable to be present. In spite of the 
disappointment felt at their absence, we passed a 
very pleasant afternoon, and, I think, all agree that 
our class-lunch is an institution much to be valued. 



“Sie sind Zenge” was Senden’s German, but 

“ \ ou are liars ” was ’s English of it. The class 

wanted to swoon (so they tell us). 



First Year. 

The First Year have had their Lunch, and it was 
pronounced the most beautiful of such like things 
that possibly could be by all those who saw it (the 
First Year only being present, and they having 
never seen one before). The table was decorated 
with red camelias and roses. The menus were 

entirely original and of very novel designs ; many of 
the toasts were novel also. Altogether it was so 
pleasant that they hope they may be able to keep 
up to the standard in succeeding years. 



By request — 

Miss R — has got her cakes — 10 of them ! 



Two happy Donaldas riding in the bottom of a 
farmer’s s’eigh attracted our attention during their 
progress along Sherbrooke Street last Saturday 
morning. With Trilbys carefully tucked out of sight 
they gracefull}^ appropriated the end of the sleigh 
and rode boldly on to College. 

Somewhere near Peel street, however, we noticed 
them becoming rather excited in apparent efforts 
to attract the driver’s attention, who appeared ut- 
terly indifferent to their presence. Then they tried 
to drop off, first one and then the other, but their 
courage seemed to forsake them and they sank hope' 
lessly back into the hay. 

A last heroic cry on the part of the fair pas.«enger 
dressed in brown brings the sleigh to a stand still, they 
wriggle out and gain the sidewalk in safety, and 
with a few wisps of hay still clinging to them they 
walk sedately through the College gates and over to 
the Library. 

exchangp:s. 

The Presbyterian College Journal has in the past 
been known as one of the mo§t flourishing college 
magazines in the Dominion, and the present, year 
beholds it better fitted than ever to sustain its justly 
earned reputation. 



Perhaps the greatest interest in the January num- 
ber centres around “ The Rise and Progre.ss of the 
Presbyterian College, Montreal,” which traces the 
history of the College from a humble beginning to 
the influential position it now occupies. This histor- 
ical sketch is accompanied by very fine photogra- 
vures of the Principal and members of the profes- 
sional staff. 

To the numerous friends of the College, this num- 
ber of the Journal will prove very acceptable. 

The Me Master University Monthly for January is 
exceptionally good, and contains several carefully* 
written articles on biographical and other subjects. 

The number opens with a biographical sketch of 
Thomas Shenston, with photogravure. 

Of the remaining articles, all are good, but the 
character sketch of Professor John Stuart Blackie is 
deserving of especial mention. Mr. McPherson writes 
in a bright, captivating style that is in complete har- 
mony with his subject. Were we a^ked to quote the 
parts that most interested us, we could do nothing 
better than reprint the whole article. 

The autograph portrait accompanying the sketch is 
from one of Professor Blackie’s latest photographs. 
The Students’ quarter contains a carefully prepared 
paper on oratory ; and a thoughtful and instructive 
article on " Home and Character” completes the 
“solid ” portion of the mental pabulum contained in 
this issue. 

The new y*ear brings us the first number of The 
Morningside, an attractive tri-weekly from Columbia 
University. The February’’ number contains, besides 
college notes, several bright and v^ery readable poems 
and short stories, as well as other articles of 
interest. 

We notice with feelings of secret envy that the 
Columbia Song Book has been satisfactorily completed 
and placed in the hands of the students. 

We did have hopes that ’96 would find McGill 
men likewise rejoicing in the possession of a new 
song-book, but so far they have been forced to con- 
tent themselves with the compilation of other univer- 
sities. 

Aggie Life is an attractive and stirring periodical 
from Massachusetts Agricultural College ; the notes 
and contributions, however, are chiefly' of a local 
nature, and of interest to the men of the College 
rather than to outsiders. The leading contribution 
is entitled “ Our Criminal Class and their Reforma- 
tion,” a labored but in general, perhaps, a coherent 
treatment of the subject. The following is a sample 
of its poetry : 

‘‘ As Providence willed, 

By her bicycle killed,” 

’Twas thus her epitaph ran. 

“ In bloomers and cap, 

Through sad mishap, 

She went to her death like a man.” 



226 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



The Manitoba College Journal for December opens 
with “ A Breeze from the Foothills of the Rockies.” | 
“ Water Scenes,” an account of an excursion on the | 
lakes of Manitoba, takes us back to the balmy days 
of the sweet summer time. Perhaps the most pleas- 
ing feature is an article on “ Student Life in the Six- j 
teenth Century.” This is a portion of the translation 
made by Mrs. Finn in 1847, of the autobiography of | 
one Thomas Platter, who was born in 1499. A few ' 
quotations may be of interest. “ Schools were not 
then established in all places ; and young people 
who wished to learn anything went either singly or ' 
in great numbers, after renowned teachers. As they 
were, for the most part, poor people, they lived on 
alms by the way, and when the thing degenerated 
the grown ones were called Bacchants, because they 
lived well on what was obtained by begging, and led 
a wild and dissolute life. The little ones were called 

ABC fags During the winter the fags lay 

upon the floor in the school, but the bacchants in 
small chambers, of which there were several hundred 
at St. Elizabeth. But in summer when it was hot, 
we lay in the churchyard ; collected grass and lay in 

it, like pigs in straw Now and then after 

supper we went into the beerhouses to beg for beer, 
and the drunken Polish peasants would then give us 
so much that I was often unable to find my way to 
the school again, though only a stone's throw from 

it Neither had anyone printed books, except the 

Preceptor, who had a printed Terence. What was 
read had first to be dictated, then pointed, then con- 
strued, and at last explained ; so that the bacchants 
had to carry away thick books of notes when they 
went home.” From portions of this, we gather that 
the nineteenth century student is in some respects 
not so unlike his predecessor of the sixteenth as the 
uninitiated might imagine. 

S. 



Organist of St. James Cathe- 
dral and Professor of tlie 
Piano and Organ 



Pelletier 







^ 





(7. .c '/^ — 

Pjt ^ ^ r. 

/'z ^ r _ /S- y 






r* /► / j • 



^ A.. ryi 









// /a< < 

V/. 



-A/ i .f 










■y y 



✓ r 

' c. ^ 

yrr y 












TRANSLATION. 



Ai» 1 XT T. , Montreal, 2Stli November, 1893. 

Mr. L. E. N. Pratte, Montreal : 

Dear SiR.~The upriglit pianos of your make— if one may form a 
judgment from tlie one I have acquired—possess a combination of all the 
qualUies esteemed by musicians, a liquid and singing quality of tone entirely 
free from all overtones and rumbling sounds so frequently found in upright 
pianos, a touch so light and elastic as to answer to the most vigorous attack 
and the lightest pressure,— in fact, capable of the most varied effects. Allow 
me to congratulate you on your good work. 

Yours, etc. K. Oct. Pelletier. 

It is only necessary to know the delicate and conscientious artist 
who has written the above letter to form an idea of the high value of 
such an opinion. 6^e have a large assortment of PRATTE Pianos, 
similar to Mr. Pelletier’s, as we manufacture only one size and one 
quality. 

Prices reasonable. Terms easy. Old instruments taken in exchange. 

PRATTE PIANO CO. hotre dame st. 




PATERSON & FOSTER 

■“-^Reicliert's Microscopes 

Acknowledged to be the beit line in the Dominion ^ 

Used in .he Bacteriological Laboratories of the ... STAINS and ACCESSORIES 
Royal Victoria and Montreal General Hospitals IN STOCK 

DISSECTING CASES, SKELETONS, SKULLS, STETHOSCOPES, THERMOMETERS, 

And all Students’ Requirements 

GET OUR QUOTATIONS^^'^m^ 



21 Phillips Square, MONTREAL 



