jWcGlfeb fORTNIGHTby 

A Fortnightly Journal of Literature, University Thought and Event. 

VOL. IV. MONTREAL, DECEMBER 25, 1895. No. 6 . 




* EDITORIAL BOARD & 



Editor-in-chief — Robert T. Mullin (Law ’96). 

Secretary — J. C. Robertson (Arts ’96). 

Harri Dell (Comp. Med. and Ve?.Sc.’96). Wm. McDougall (Sc. ’96). 

W. B. Mowatt, B.A. (Med ’96). Miss W. J. Pitcher (Donalda *96). 

Dr. R. Tait McKenzie (Graduates Society). 



* BUSINESS BOARD 8$ 

S. G. Archibald (Arts ’97), Chairman. 

Edgar N. Armstrong, B.A. (Law ’97). Miss M. Hutchinson (Donalda ’96). 
Wm. Proderick (Med. *96). J. W. Bell (Sc. *97). 

J. J. McCarrey (Comp. Med. and Vet. Sc. '96). 

The McGill Fortnightly is published by the Students of the University 
on the Wednesday of every second week during the College Session. 

The annual subscription is $i.oo, payable strictly in advance. Remittance to 
be made to the Chairman of the Business Board, 113 McKay Street, Montreal. 
Single copies may be obtained at Win. Drysdale & Co.'s, E. M. RenouPs, Cyrus 
Ashford’s, Chapman's and W. Foster Brown’s, Booksellers. Price, io cents. 
Address Contributions to Editor-in-Chief, 105 St. Hubert Street, Montreal. 



EDITORIAL COMMENTS. 



On looking over an old group photograph taken 
in our Freshman year, composed entirely of natives 
of one small town, we were struck by the fact that 
many, nearly all, had passed out of our life, and that 
we now knew little or nothing of all but two or 
three. The only bond of union that ever brought 
us together before the camera being that of a com- 
mon birth-place. 

It is the same bond that is tightening and drawing 
in the Old McGill graduates in Toronto, New York 
and Chicago, to band themselves together lest they 
forget their common intellectual birth-place. 

It is a healthy and encouraging sign that the old 
boys begin to ask about, and take an interest in, 
their College; and although the opportunities of meet- 
ing them may be few and the intervals long, we 
cannot but feel the influence for good of these gra- 
duate societies, each a centre from which will spring 
loyalty and pride in their Alma Mater. 

We have felt the need of some manifestation of 
this feeling for years to counteract the, deadening 
apathy that is so apt to pervade the collegiate 
atmosphere everywhere in Canada, and this stilling 
among the dry bones will, we hope, result in an 



“ exceeding great army ” of graduates, ready and 
eager to lend a hand in everything that will quicken 
and solidify the progress that has marked the history 
of the University in recent years. 



Owing to the stress of Christmas examinations, our 
class reports are somewhat meagre for this issue. 
This, however, is not a cause of complaint, as we 
cannot expect our Class Reporters to sacrifice much 
of their valuable time on the very eve of the Christmas 
ordeal. By the time this issue of the FORTNIGHTLY 
appears, however, the examinations will be finished, 
many of the students will have departed for their 
holidays, and silence will reign in college corridors. 
It is to be hoped that students will carry away with 
them the lively satisfaction which flows from a con- 
sciousness of one half-session’s work, at least, well 
and thoroughly done, indication of which will no 
doubt presently appear in the Christmas returns. 
This, with the anticipation of a pleasant holiday and 
rest, ought to make every student-traveller happy. 
Meanwhile, to all, students and readers, the Fort- 
nightly wishes all the joys of the season — a truly 
Merry Xmas and Happy New Year. 



The next issue of the FORTNIGHTLY will be pub- 
lished towards the close of the holidays. Unavoid- 
ably there will be neither Society nor Class reports. 
Nevertheless the editors are glad to be able to 
announce that a full Number will be forthcoming, 
several contributions of unusual interest having been 
reserved. 



CONTRIBUTIONS. 



NOTES UPON NAMES. 

Of course the reader will ask with Shakespeare, 
“What’s in a name?” Well, Carlyle shall answer: 
He insists that “ there is much, — nay, almost all 
in a name. The name,” he continues, “ is the earliest 
“garment wrapt around the earth, to which it thence, 
“forth cleaves more tenaciously than the very skin- 
“ There are names which have lasted nigh thirty cen- 



100 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



“turies. Not only all common speech, but science, 
“ poetry itself — if thou consider it — is no other than a 
“ right naming.” Then again, the old philosophers 
thought a good deal of names ; there were the several 
schools, and those of the “ Nominalists” and 
“ Realists,” — the first holding that all general ideas are 
but names , the other as strenuously insisting that 
ideas are the essence of things. The philological feud 
has been going on for centuries, and is none the 
nearer adjustment than when it began. 

Dp you still persist in asking, What’s in a name? 
Put the question to yourself, Is your own patronymic 
nothing to you ? Rather, is it not more interesting to 
you than any other vocal sound? Is it not, indeed, in- 
dissolubly connected with your hopes and fears, joys 
and sorrows, — nay, with your reputation and your 
very existence itself? 

The fact is, a name is something to a man. To 
some, is it not a passport to fame and renown? — to 
others, a badge of shame and reproach ? Who, then, 
will dispute the question, or dare to undervalue the 
little verbal adjunct to his existence, — his name? True, 
it is conferred, or rather imposed, upon him without 
consultation or consent ; but, as it is in accordance 
with a custom which has received the sanction of law, 
there is no demurring against it. How could we get 
along in the world without names ? What incessant 
confusion would take place as to who’s who. Even 
the most insignificant waif of humanity, if without 
almost anything else, is sure to have a name given to 
him by his progenitor, or some benevolent philan- 
thropist. Possibly, the name conferred upon the 
helpless one may savour of the circumstances or 
locality in which he was found, but the endowment 
lasts through life, and puts him permanently in the 
nominative case. 

According to a classic motto, — Botium omen, bonum 
nomen — a good name is a good omen ; and Shakes- 
peare affirms that, 

“ Good name in man or woman 
“ Is the immediate jewel of their souls.” 

May we not, therefore, transpose the question 
before us, and put it thus : What is there not in a 
name? Since then it is the representative and in- 
separable associate of its possessor, is it not both na- 
tural and right that we should guard it from assault, 
and prize it more than gems and all precious metals ? 
Had we no name, indeed, we should be worse off than 
Peter Schlemihl, who had no shadow, he having, it is 
said, sold it to the devil. 

How should we become known to one another 
were we unable to call each other names ? Thus 
much as to personal names. 

Without names, what would become of our nation- 
al archives, and the records of fame, our commerce 

> 



our social and civil affairs ? A name is therefore evi- 
dently a sine qua non in civilization. Even among 
the rudest tribes, it is not easy to imagine that names 
were not in vogue to designate persons as well as 
things; although it has been surmised that the 
ancient Scythians were like some of the tribes of the 
Wild Bushmen, nameless! Fortune, who is repre- 
sented as being blind, has even sometimes determined 
questions of great moment by — name, an instance 
being that of a certain Spanish maiden who, because 
she was endowed with a poetic name , won the crown 
of France, over the rival charms of her more beautiful 
sister. Names renowned are towers of strength. 
Names are not merely nominal things ; they possess 
a mystic power, and sometimes sway the destinies of 
empires. What a potent charm was enshrined in the 
name Napoleon to all France ! What terror it car- 
ried to her beleaguered hostile hosts ! Are names not 
mnemonics of ancient heroism and martial achieve- 
ments ? Those world-renowned names, Caesar, Alex- 
under, Philip of Macedon and Charlemagne ? 

The origin of names is, of course, coeval with the 
race. The primal pair had their proper names direct 
from the Creator; and Adam was divinely instructed 
to designate the lower orders of creation by name. 

In the earliest ages, our patriarchal ancestors seem 
to have been content with a single name. It was 
when the Romans agreed with the Sabines that they 
should annex their names with their own, that what 
we call surnames commenced. The Romans, in 
process of time, multiplied their surnames to dis- 
tinguish the particular branches of a family, to which 
they sometimes added a third to perpetuate the 
memory of some remarkable event, such as that of 
Africanus, assumed by Scipio, and Torquatus by 
Manlius. These three different kinds of names 
were severally distinguished by the terms, nomen , cog- 
nomen, and agnomen. The agnomen of the Romans 
was imitated by other nations, including the English, 
for the race of their princes, as Edmund Ironside, 
William Rufus, Edward the Black Prince, Harold 
Baiefoot, and in Prance, Louis le Debonnaire, etc. 

Surnames began to be in general use in England 
duiing the reign ofEdward the Confessor. The change 
in nomenclatuie then took place in populated- and 
civilized European societies, and surnames became 
the hereditary (family) name. Thus, the baron was 
named after his estate ; the commoner after some 
local or personal characteristic or craft. Proper, or 
personal, names may be said long since to have be- 
come common, since every Christian or civilized 
parent imposes upon his offspring an added or Chris- 
tian name to that which is the family patronymic. 

What name shall be given to the little local 
brevity that has just made his or her advent among 
us, is the question ? Every new-comer, of course, 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



IOI 



has an indefeasible right to his name, to his indivi- 
duality, to be himself and no other ; and before this 
fact, parent and guardian should stand reverently. 

Charles Lamb justly protested against imposing 
inappropriate names upon children, when some one 
was about to call his hopeful son Nicodemus. No less 
ludicrous was the custom of our Puritan forefathers, 
who delighted to adorn their progeny with such 
patronymics as “ Praise-God- Barebones,” “ Fight-the- 
Good-Fight-of-Faith,” “ Kill Sin,” “Make-Peace,’’ 

“ Search-the-Scriptures,” “ Faint-not,” etc. Equally 
absurd is the folly of designating some scion of ob- 
scure origin by the high sounding and pretentious 
names of Hannibal, Caesar, Washington, Napoleon or 
Wellington. 

It is told of a certain bishop, who, having a dislike 
to the use of Greek and Latin proper names for chil- 
dren, on one occasion thus manifested it : When a 
child was presented for bap'ism, on enquiring the 
name, he was told “ Marcus Tullius Cicero !” The in- 
censed bishop replied, “ Tut, tut, with your heathen- 
ish nonsense. Peter, I baptize thee,” and Peter he was 
called through life. 

In an English country-town some years since, a 
person rejoicing in the appellation of Frogg brought 
his child to be christened, it was given John, to which 
was added the maiden name of the mother, Bull, so 
that the name of the little Frogg from that time on- 
ward stood John Bull Frogg. 

The Celtic prefix to family names in Scotland, Ire- 
land and Wales,— Mac, O’, and Ap— each means 
son. The English still retain the old Saxon suffix. 
For example, Williamson, the son of William ; Smith- 
son, the son of Smith. The Norman Fitz means also 
son, thus Gibbon’s son is Fitzgibbon. 

Lower, referring to the old custom of the Welsh 
linking to their own names those of their ancestors six 
or eight generations back, tells us of a church at 
Langollen, Wales, dedicated to St. Colin-ap-Gwyn- 
“ nawg-ap-Clyndawg-ap Cowrda-ap-Cavadoc - Freich- 
“ fras-ap-Llyn-Merion-ap-Einion - Yrth-ap - Cunedda- 
“ ledig,” a name that casts the Dutchman’s into the 
shade. Look at it, — 

“ Inkvervankodsdorspankinkadrachdern. 

Quevedo Redivivus. 



A BULL FIGHT AT NIMES. 

“ Hello ! What’s this ?” said I to McLean, one bright 
May morning, as we were going up the High street 
of Montpellier. A huge placard, with a picture of a 
bull in the classical attitude of rage, head down, tail 
lifted, nostrils breathing forth fire and smoke, was 
what had attracted our notice. On closer inspection 
we found that there was to be a grand bull-fight at 



Nimes, in honor of the departure of the soldiers for 
Madagascar. Everything was to be done in strictly 
classical style, as at Barcelona or Seville. Six 
thoroughbred Spanish bulls were to be run. 

“McLean,” said I, “lull-fights are brutal I know, 
but, at the same time, I am not going to have one 
occur within forty miles of me and not go to see it.” 

“ Thim’s my sintiments, ” said McLean ; and so, one 
beautifully bright May morning, you might have 
seen us on our way to Nimes by the early morning 
express. Arriving at Nimes at eight a.m., we had 
plenty of time to see the town. 

I do not intend to write you a “ Baedeker,” so will 
refrain from giving you a description of the “ Maison- 
Caree,” or “ La Fontaine,” or the famous tower, or 
any of the other beautiful sights of this o'd Roman 
town. At two o’clock we betook ourselves to the 
“ Arena ” where the fight was to take place. This 
arena is, I believe, in the best preservation of all the 
Roman remains in Gaul. It is something like the 
Colosseum at Rome, but is, of course, much better 
preserved. It is capable of holding about 30,000 
people, and although on this occasion there were 
only about 20,000 present, it was a most inspiring 
sight. The bright dresses of the ladies, the fans and 
the waving handkerchiefs, and the “ beau soleil du 
Midi ” looking down upon it all, made such a picture 
as one will not soon forget. 

At a quarter past two, a large orchestra struck up 
the Russian national hymn, without which nothing 
can be done in that ultra-democratic land of France. 
Immediately after, the cavalcade, consisting of tore- 
adors, picadors and their assistants, marched in, while 
the orchestra played the opening march in Caynen. 

The different actors took their places, and all was 
ready for the fight to begin. At a given signal, a 
door was opened, and the bull rushed out, — a magnifi- 
cent animal, huge shoulders, delicate feet, and a most 
murderous-looking pair of horns. The assistants, 
who are provided with colored cloths to draw the 
bull away, when his attentions become too pressing 
in any particular quarter, jumped lightly over the 
barrier. The picadors were now left to face the bull. 
These picadors are mounted on horseback, and are 
armed with a long spear which has a short but sharpr 
point. The horse is blindfolded, and has a rubber 
armor underneath to protect him against the bull’s 
horns- This armor is, however, of no real protection, 
as the bull’s horns pierce it with the utmost ease. It 
only serves to hide the disgusting nature of the 
wounds from the spectator. The bull, having routed 
all the assistants, now made a rush for the picador, 
but was met fairly on the shoulder by the spear. 
After trying in vain to get his horns under the horse, 
he had to sheer off. 

Only the more enraged by the nasty wound which 



102 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



he had received in the shoulder, the bull charges 
again, and this time almost succeeds in impaling the 
horse ; only by the most skillful horsemanship was dis- 
aster averted. The bull prepares to charge again, and 
this time with the full determination to succeed. 
The picador’s spear, not planted on just the right 
spot, seems to slip along the bull’s shoulder, and the 
bull gets in under the horse- Up go horse and rider 
into the air. A suppressed sob seems to shake the 
audience: “Ah ! le mechant ! le mediant ! He got him 
that time.” The assistants rush up, and by waving 
their colored cloths before the bull’s eyes, he is quickly 
drawn off. 

If the bull does not seem sufficiently tired for the 
more delicate work to be done against him on foot, 
another picador goes through the same performance. 
In the majority of cases, the picador manages to 
come off without any serious injury. 

The next thing is to place two small sticks, which 
have sharp barbed points, in the bull’s shoulder. As 
the bull charges, one steps lightly aside, and puts 
the “ banderilles,” as they are called, into his 
shoulder. A rather delicate piece of work .in this 
respect is to place one of these sticks on either side 
of the bull’s neck. The horns of the bull as he goes 
by seem to pass right under the fighter’s arm ; the 
least slip might mean almost instant death. 

After the bull has been thus played with, the really 
serious part of the performance begins. 

As the toreador takes his sword and red cloth, he 
is greeted with prolonged cheers, a running comment 
is made upon his manner of attacking the bull. 
“ Look how squarely he goes for him, ” “ No funk is 
that chap,” “ If he had only the height of the other 
man, what a fighter he would make ! ” and so on and 
so on. But now he is getting ready to give the 
stroke which will, if rightly delivered, kill the bull 
almost instantaneously. Look how skillfully he plays 
with the bull, leading him on, looking ever for an 
opening. At last he thinks he sees his chance, and 
plunges his sword in the bull’s shoulder. The sword, 
however, only goes a few inches into the flesh, and 
the bull, with an impatient toss, flings it off. A deep 
groan runs through the audience. “ Rate ! Rate !” 
mutter the knowing ones. The toreador feels that 
on the next stroke hangs his reputation, and works 
carefully for an opening. This time the sword sinks 
right to the hilt, and the bull drops instantaneously. 

It must be known that there is only a spot about 
the size of a fifty cent piece where the mortal stroke 
can be given. It will thus be seen what a delicate 
matter it is, and how great skill and nerve is required 
to make a successful toreador. The assistants now 
run up, and one of them plunges a short dagger in 
the bull, just behind the horns. This is called the 



“coup de grace,” and thoroughly assures the death 
of the bull. Horses come in and drag off the body, 
and the arena is cleared for the next bull. 

It takes on an average about twenty minutes to 
kill a bull, and six are killed at a properly conducted 
“ course.” The other five bulls were killed in much 
the same manner, although there was of course infi- 
nite variety in the detail- One is never sure till the 
end that it will not be the toreador’s turn to die in- 
stead of the bull- 

One of the most daring things possible occurred 
during the “ running” of the third bull. One of the 
toreadors, while working with the bull for an opening, 
suddenly dropped on his knees, right in front of the 
bull, and not four feet away from him. The bull 
stood there pawing the ground, and seeming every in- 
stant to be on the point of annihilating the man. The 
toreador knelt, looking fixedly at him. It seemed a 
contest between will and brute force. I suppose they 
remained in that position for about thirty seconds, 
although to us looking on it seemed ages- Finally, 
the bull gave in and turned away. One can more 
easily imagine than describe the excitement among 
the audience. Flowers, handkerchiefs, fans, canes, 
hats, whatever came to hand, rained down upon the 
toreador. Such a scene of excitement could only be 
witnessed among Southern people. 

When the sixth bull had been killed, we breathed 
a sigh of relief that none of the men had been 
injured. 

Three horses had been placed hors de combat , 
and this was quite enough for our delicate English 
nerves. It is all, I suppose, a matter of getting used 
to it. 

As the train drew out of Nimes on our way home, 
McLean said to me, “ I don’t think they will ever 
have any trouble between amateurs and professionals 
in that sport.” 

I heartily agreed with him. 

G. A. S., Arts ’97. 



AU CANADA. 

“Thro’ the desert waste and wide 
Do I glide unespied as I ride, as I ride !” 

Browning. 

“ And O ye Fountains, Meadows, Hills and Groves, 

Think not of any severing of our loves !” 

Wordsworth, 

At last ! What a heavy weight has tumbled from 
our backs ! The soul springs up elastic after its re- 
lease. To be free! How sweet it is ! The last ex- 
amination over ; the weary grinding done ; our tat- 
tered texts flung high upon the shelf. Books ! — away 
with them ! 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



103 



44 Come, hear the woodland linnet ! 

IIow sweet his music! On my life, 

There’s more than wisdom in it.” 

There is liberty! To be free, — one feels the expan- 
sive vivacity of childhood again. Surely the air has 
a brilliancy all its own to-day. And the breeze — how 
fresh it is ! One trips, one sings ; — speech and slow 
pace are bondage at a time like this. The very pass- 
ers-by in the streets are smiling. Are they, too, go- 
ing home to-day? How the bells repeat it ! “ Home 
again ! Home again !” says the great Cathedral 
chime beyond the Common, and the old College Bell 
in the chapel hour by hour responds “ Home Home ! 
Home again ! Home !” 

How time flies to-day ! The forenoon is gone ; the 
whistles all about the city are calling the noon hour. 
A moment for lunch, then to my packing. In they 
go — clothes, books, knick-knacks, pictures, — in they 
go. Disorder! They have not long to stay; to- 
morrow — But haste ! There is just time for a last 
walk up by the old church elms, a spin across the 
river meadow, then home to supper. Jack was in this 
forenoon, and I can see Fred on my way down. The 
hackman has my trunks, — one, two, three ; my traps 
are all right ; and those books for G. F. J. — bless him. 
Fred can leave them. I am off ; there’s my car. 
Good-bye. 

The long train stands ready to draw out, the pon- 
derous engine fretting and chafing at its head. The 
cars are filling, valises and bags are stowed under the 
seats and piled in the corners ; the porters hurry by 
with trunks and boxes for the baggage-car. The 
conductor walks up and down the platform glancing 
at his watch from time to time ; windows are opened 
and shut ; good-byes are said ; hands waved ; the en- 
gine frets more loudly, blowing off great puffs of 
steam. The conductor waves his hand ; the last 
passengers spring aboard ; the doors slam shut ; the 
engine pants in sudden breaths ; we are off. Off for 
Canada and home ! 

We steal out of the grimy depot as the bells are 
striking eight, while the last colors of sunset still 
linger in the sky. We cross the shining, sluggish 
Charles, with its oily waters creaming and curling 
about the river-stakes and sliding in long streaks past 
the weather-worn piers ; we storm across smoky 
Charlestown with a roar of wheels and a rush of 
swirling smoke, spin through town after town in racing 
leaps, and soon have drawn away altogether from the 
skirts of Boston, and are speeding northward among 
low hills and placid sheets of water,— ponds— as these 
willful people persist in calling their beautiful little 
lakelets. For a while we have light enough to see 
the country we are passing through with distinctness; 
but soon the sunset light dies out of the west, drawing 



with it the flush of color which the lakes had caught 
in their bosoms and the watching trees upon their 
turned leaves, and we flee onward into a night of 
stars. 

As the dusk draws on, a weird change comes over 
the landscape. The objects along the way one after 
another take on a fantastic life, and join in the dance 
with us as we speed by, and in that border-land of 
night the dreams of the old philosophers become real, 
the earth is ensouled, throbbing with the existence of 
countless spirits, each with an appreciative life of its 
own. And as we pass along, a wave of this strange 
life seems to rise from the earth around us and rush 
onward on either side, pointing northward with a 
thousand fingers and bidding us God speed upon our 
way. The houses and fences as we draw near come 
running in towards the line, peer at us breathlessly 
while we dash by, then fall back again to their proper 
places as we hurry away from them, with an almost 
audible sigh that they, too, are not hastening with us 
towards the northern Hills. Little lakes rise up from 
the parted earth before the train, and blink at us 
timidly with their eyes full of stars, then sink won- 
deringly back as we pass. And streams bubble up 
from unseen fountains at our side, and rush madly 
along by us until far outstripped, when they drop un- 
concernedly aside into some gossipy valley, where a 
murmurous river winds slowly down to the sea. The 
reeds and tall wayside grasses take hands and dance 
around us as we hang above them, nodding their 
heads gaily, and bidding us be of good cheer, as they 
wave their bright tresses in the wind. The little 
breezes perch in flocks upon the train, and sing about 
the coaches, darting in and out of the open windows, 
here roguishly tumbling the hair of a child who tries 
to catch them as they pass, there shyly touching a 
rose that nestles upon the breast of a maiden, and 
yonder dropping its fragrance from their shining 
wings as they fan the brows of a tired mother and her 
sleeping babe. 

The trees lean towards us as we pass, and clap all 
their tiny hands at our speed ; the groves and hills in 
their endless march backward pause a moment just 
abreast of us to look ; and the black fantastic shadows 
move their long limbs grotesquely, tugging wildly at 
their substances the while, in the vain effort to join us 
in our flight; while overhead the little clouds fly on 
singly and in groups before us, beckoning us onward, 
northward and ever northward, till darkness comes 
down and swallows up the earth with its dancing 
scenes and its myriad life, and the many eyed train 
plunges forward alone through the night. 

R. MacDougall. 

Cambridge, Mass. 



104 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



POETRY. 



ODE A DU PERRIER SUR LA MORT 
DE SA FILLE. 

(. Malherbe — 1555-1628.) 

Ta douleur, Du Perrier, sera done eternelle ? 

Et les tristes discours 
Que te met en 1 ’esprit l’amiti£ pateinelle 
L’augmenteront toujours ? 

Le malheur de ta fille au tombeau descendue, 

Par un commun tr£pas, 

Est-ce quelque d£dale oft ta raison perdue 
Ne se relrouve pas ? 

Je sais de quels appas son enfance 6tait pleine ; 

Je n’ai pas entrepris, 

Injurieux ami, de soulager ta peine 
Avecque son mgpris. 

Mais elle £tait du monde ou les plus belles choses 
Ont le pire destin ; 

Et, rose, elle a v£cu ce que vivent les roses, 

L’espace d’un matin. 

La Mort a des ligueurs k nulle autre pareilles ; 

On a beau la prier ; 

La cruelle qu’elle est se bouche les oreilles, 

Et nous laisse crier. 

Le pauvre en sa cabane, ou le chaume le couvre, 

Est sujet k ses lois ; 

Et la garde qui veille aux barri£res du Louvre 
N’en defend pas nos rois. 



TRANSLATION. 

(By Alfred Elwes.) 

Thy grief, Du Perrier, will it ne’er depart ? 

And shall the words of woe, 

Paternal love is whispering to thy heart, 

For ever make it flow ? 

Thy daughter’s fate in sinking ’mid the dead, 

The lot for all in store, 

Is it some maze in which thy reason fled, 

Is lost for evermore ? 

I know what charms were spread about her youth 
Nor hath been my aim 

My injur’d friend ! the fatal blow to soothe 
By weakening her fame. 

But she was of that world, whose brightest flow’rs 
To saddest fate are born ; 

A rose, she number’d all a rose’s hours, 

The space of one bright morn. 

Oh! Death hath rigors beyond all compare, 

To pray to her is vain. 

The cruel Sprite is deaf to all our care, 

She heeds no cry of pain. 

The poor man in his hut,- whate’er his state, 
Must meet the dart she flings ; 

And sentries watching at the palace gate 
Cannot defend our kings ! 



THE STRIFE FOR THE PRIMAL GRADE. 

1. 

Half a year, half a year, 

Half a year over, 

Each one with bated breath 
Strove for the hundred. 

Hope for the primal grade! 

Oh I what a fight we made ! 

Each one with baud bieath 
Strove for the hundred. 

II. 

Hope for the primal grade ! 

Was there a soul afraid ? 

Yes, and we sadly know 
Many had blundered : 

* Ours not to sit and cry, 

Ours but to reason why, 

Ours but again to try 

And strive for the hundred. 

III. 

Query to right of us, 

Query to left of us, 

Query in front of us. 

We looked at and wondertd ; 

As if our doom to tell, 

Or like a funeral knell, 

Halting our very breath, 

Rang out the college bell, 

€t Try for the hundred.’' 

IV. 

Flashed all our pen-points bare. 

Flashed all at once in air, 

Tackling the “ stunners ” there, 

Guessing an answer, while 
Sure we had floundered : 

Plunged in a mental smoke, 

Thought gone, and heart near broke, 

Over some question, 

No prompter kindly spoke, 

When e’er we blundered. 

Sad we went back, with not, 

Not the full hundred. 

V. 

Query to right of us, 

Query to left of us, 

Query behind us 

We’d looked at, and wondered, 

Requested some fact to tell, 

Truly our hopes soon fell. 

We that had 0 thought ” so well 
Came from the jaws of death, 

Back from the foe to tell 
All that we made of them, 

Made of the hundred. 

VI. 

When shall its memory fade? 

O’er the wild guesses made 
Professors have wondered. 

Honor our real grade : 

Honor the mark we made, 

Part of the hundred. 



NONNEL. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



105 






SOCIETIES. 



Y. VV. C. A. 

The subject of the meeting of 6th December, 1895, 
was “A Redeemer Promised.” Miss Doull referred to 
the promise as found repeated in Isaiah and Hosea. 
The Jews held the idea that redemption meant “ some- 
thing bought back again for money.” Christ was 
promised to all, and without money. In I Kings 56, 
Solomon acknowledges that God fulfills His promises, 
and later, John the Baptist appeared to declare that 
that promise was about to be revealed. 

At our meeting on 13th December, 1895, Miss 
Brown took up in continuation the subject, “ The 
Redeemer sent.” The verse “ I am the Lord,” Isaiah 
xlix, was the text chosen. Jews and Gentiles are 
both forgiven, and His atonement took away the 
penalty of sin and brings us back to God. The price 
paid was “ physical torment and mental torture, 1 ” not 
the fear of Calvary but the dread lest physical 
strength could not endure. A way to Heaven was 
revealed, not a description of it. Both leaders took 
up the subjects in such a way as to leave no doubt 
of the Promise and its Fulfillment, and the thoughts 
were so worded as to make all more beautiful. 



McGILL Y. M. C. A. 

W- J. Wanless, M.D., travelling secretary for the 
Students Volunteer Movement for Foreign Missions, 
visited our Association on the 7th and 8th inst. Dr. 
Wanless has had a considerable experience in 
medical mission work, having labored for about six 
years in India under the auspices of the American 
Presbyterian Board of Foreign Missions. He is at 
present home on Furlough. 

He addressed the Student Volunteers at the resi- 
dence of Mr. A. C. Leslie, 31 1 Peel St., on Saturday 
evening, and on Sunday afternoon at 3 o’clock he 
spoke to the students generally, in the Association 
Building, and presented the needs of the work in 
India in a very lucid and forcible manner. He also 
spoke in the American Presbyterian church at the 
evening service 

The last meeting of the Fall term was held on 
Sunday afternoon, 15th December. Mr. Tory pre- 
sided. The topic was “ The Parable of the Sower” 
Luke viii. 4-15. The meeting was one of the bes't — 
because it was most practical — that have been held. 

Mr. Tory still continues, we are pleased to say, to 
have charge of the meetings for the Spring term. 
They will be resumed again on 12th January. 



UNDERGRADUATES LITERARY 
SOCIETY. 

The meeting of this Society, held on 6th December, 
was very largely attended, considering the near ap- 
proach of the examinations. The president, in calling 
the meeting to order, expressed his pleasure at seeing 
so large a gathering, and congratulated the committee 
at the same time on procuring a full programme. 

One item of business was disposed of before the 
debate. Mr. Mitchell, president of the Society, and 
Mr. Robertson, preside nt of the Fourth Year in Arts, 
were appointed to debate for us against Toronto 
U niversity. 

In the absence of a reader, the Sophomores opened 
the programme. They sang a hearty song, having 
words suited to the occasion. A storm of applause 
called forth an encore. 

Mr. Munn, Arts ’98, then read a carefully prepared 
essay on “Woman in Ancient Greece.” The subject 
for debate, if not exactly academical, was at all events 
very interesting. It is certainly gratifying to feel quite 
sure that you can hear the last word said on a vexed 
question by merely attending a meeting of the Lite- 
rary Society. It was resolved “ that the verdict ren- 
dered in the Shortis trial was just ” 

Mr. Archibald, Arts ’97, in opening the debate, 
pointed out that the meaning of the word just must 
be taken as “according to law,” and hoped that the 
speakers would not fall a-bickering over terms when 
there was so much of real importance to discuss. In 
the course of his speech Mr. Archibald touched on 
the following points : that expert testimony proving 
unsoundness of mind can carry little weight. The 
opinion of Lord Campbell was adduced to strengthen 
this contention. Mr. Archibald also thought that 
the doctors, without being in any sense venal, would 
be almost certain to find that for which they were set 
to look. He also insisted on the fact that the Crown 
was not required to prove the sanity of a prisoner, 
and that therefore the silence of Dr. Villeneuve should 
not be construed as a tacit admission of insanity. He 
also blamed the defence for allowing Shortis to enter 
the witness box if he were not of sound mind. He 
maintained that the question ot insanity was really 
the point at issue. By way of calling attention to 
some of the very sane acts of Shortis at critical pe- 
riods, Mr. Archibald referred to the letter he wrote 
to his lawyers, instructing them to base his defence 
on insanity. Mr. Archibald took his seat amid hearty 
applause. 

Mr. Marler, Law ’98, opened the debate for the 
negative. As an old Arts man Mr. Marler congratu- 
lated the Society on its large attendance. He was 
rather surprised that the examinations could inspire 
the members with so little fear. Approaching the 



io6 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



resolution from the strictly legal side, Mr. Marler 
said that expert testimony must be accepted in court 
so long as the law remained in its present state. He 
would not contend that expert testimony was neces- 
sary in itself, but was compulsory by law. Mr. Marler 
distinguished between a legal and a moral crime, and 
quoted Henry Howard, to show that a prisoner shall 
not suffer death if insane at the exact moment when 
murder is committed, regardless of his previous or 
subsequent actions. He contended that in the pre- 
sent case, twelve comparatively ignorant men could 
not appreciate the testimony of the learned doctors. 
Mr. Marler did not consider the Gauthier trial as an 
exact parallel, but adduced the case to prove that 
medical testimony as to insanity had in at least one 
instance been accepted as warranty for mental 
unsoundness. Mr. Marler cited another trial, which 
he thought was an exact parallel of the present case, 
that of Hayvern. The prisoner was hanged, and upon 
subsequent examination his brain was found to be 
very far from that of the normal human being. Mr. 
Marler’s peroration was also well received by the 
meeting. 

Mr. Rowett, Arts ’97, spoke second on the affirma- 
tive. In his speech Mr. Rowett exhibited much 
personal acquaintance with the facts of the murder, 
and added some local color to the details of the tra- 
gedy at Valleyfield. Mr. Rowett saw in the actions 
of Shortis peculiarities vastly different from those of 
his relations who had died in mad houses. He admit- 
ted that Shortis had shown many eccentricities, but if 
insane at all it was after notoriety. He saw in the 
tragedy of March 1st the culmination of the ambition 
of the convicted. The prisoner had often been called 
a fool at home, sometimes also at Valleyfield, but 
in the latter instance the charge was preferred by 
luckless rivals in love. Mr. Rowett maintained that 
the application of the word in its graver sense occurred 
only when a commission was trying to find evidences 
of insanity. In ending a very forcible speech, Mr. 
Rowett referred to the deportment of Shortis imme- 
diately subsequent to the murder, his apparently 
cool satisfaction at having attained notoriety, and his 
very rational desire of being shot on the spot by a 
friend rather than facing the rigor of the law. 

Mr. Stewart, Law ’97, was the second speaker on 
the negative. On taking the platform Mr. Stewart 
confessed that he was about to make his maiden 
speech. He hoped the meeting would be able to 
follow his arguments easily. Mr. Stewart pointed out 
three theories for determining insanity in a prisoner, 
and took as the basis of his argument the English 
standard of the ability to discriminate between right 
and wrong. The affirmative had called the prisoner a 
spoilt child, they should really have called him a 



spoilt lunatic. He admitted that the Archbishop of 
Waterford had known the lad well. The speaker 
thought that in reality the Archbishop new him took 
well to discover the real insanity which lurked in his 
boyish pranks. He considered it only natural that 
when the fond mother asked for a letter of recom- 
mendation, reminding the good priest that “never 
did sun shine upon such a son as this son,” that he 
should grant her request. Coming to the insanity as 
shown in the Valleyfield murder, he condemned the 
present system of juries in such cases. They were 
not only ignorant in regard to the matter before them, 
but they had taken upon themselves to over-ride the 
evidence of persons of the highest repute who held 
opinions contrary to their own. Mr. Stewart differed 
from his confreres regarding the silence of Dr. Ville- 
neuve. He thought that in this feature of the trial 
Mr. Macmaster had shown the wisdom of the serpent. 
Mr. Macmaster knew well, said he, the ignorance of 
his jury, and acted upon his knowledge. No evidence 
that Dr. Villeneuve might give could add anything 
to their stubborn conviction that Shortis was sane. 
Mr. Stewart went on to prove that the mania of 
Shortis was purely homicidal in its nature, and that 
therefore the man might be of apparently sound 
mental capacity except when seized by the homi- 
cidal tendency. 

The time limit was reached before the speaker had 
left this point. 

Mr. Stewart also met with a good reception. He 
is to be congratulated on his maiden speech. Older 
members of the Society might well give an equal 
amount of pains to the preparation of their speeches. 

Mr. Thomas, Arts ’98, was the third speaker on the 
affirmative. He was left little choice in the subject 
matter of his speech. It only remained with him to 
show from the details of the crime that Shortis was 
quite sane on the 1st of March. It appears that 
Wilson, the assistant bookkeeper, had a pistol in his 
desk, and only gave it up to be cleaned after he had 
withdrawn the cartridges. Shortis was evidently 
unable to accomplish his purpose with an empty 
revolver. But when he had returned the weapon 
and it had been re-loaded, he did not hesitate to 
snatch it up as Wilson’s back was turned, and fire 
upon the men now at his mercy. The subsequent 
details were certainly important though ghastly. 
That the crime was committed solely for the money 
then in the mill seemed clear to Mr. Thomas, from the 
fact that only when it was being removed beyond his 
reach was Shortis incited to the idea of murder. In 
conclusion, Mr. Thomas alleged that Dr. Villeneuve 
had not been called on the stand because the jury- 
men were too ignorant to follow such evidence as he 
would have given. 






McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



107 



Mr. Heine (also of Arts ’98) was the third speaker 
on the negative. Mr. Heine went into the history of 
insanity in the Shortis family at some length, citing 
certain laws which apply to the changes which the 
insane tendency may take in different members of a 
family. The homicidal mania of Shortis was, he 
thought, the natural outcome of other forms of mental 
disease in the same family. Mr. Heine adduced evi- 
dence to show that many inmates of asylums pos- 
sessed capabilities analogous to those of the murderer, 
and that many of them were intrusted with work 
very similar to that which Shortis had performed at 
Valleyfield. He could well imagine the ignorance of 
parents in respect to certain extraordinary actions of 
a son away from home. Were fond parents not often 
deceived about the deportment of their sons while at 
McGill? Yet no McGill student had ever been tried 
for insanity. Mr. Heine displayed no little emotion 
on considering the fact that stern justice was to be 
allowed its full course. Mr. Macmaster, he said, had 
signed the petition for a commutation of sentence. 
Was this not good and sufficient proof of the injus- 
tice of the verdict ? 

In summing up the arguments brought forward by 
the negative side, Mr. Marler emphasized his conten- 
tion that the jury was incompetent to appreciate the 
expert testimony adduced. He said that Dr. 
Clarke, in his book on the subject, had distinguished 
between insanity and imbecility. It was no argument 
that because Shortis was no imbecile that therefore 
he was not insane. Again expert testimony was 
required by law, and this had all been in favor of 
insanity ; furthermore, it was conclusive that the jury 
was doing an injustice in disregarding this evidence. 
Mr. Marler perorated eloquently in an admonition to 
vote on the merits of the arguments, and not on any 
preconceived notions. 

Mr. Archibald concluded the debate. He said that 
his side had been accused of wanting to throw out 
expert testimony because the jury was too ignorant to 
understand it. This was not strictly the case. The 
jury was not composed of ignorant mill hands from 
Valleyfield, but it had been chosen chiefly from the 
district of Huntingdon. Some of its members were 
college men, and doubtless able to give good reasons 
for their verdict. The reputation of Huntingdon at 
this College would easily disprove the charge of 
incompetency and ignorance. Mr. Archibald recalled 
the fact that Shortis was a desperate man in need of 
the money he knew to be in the mill. The stupid 
way in which the convicted had received his sen- 
tence was no proof of an unbalanced mind. It had 
been often paralleled in the annals of the criminal 
courts. The speaker wished also to repudiate the 
charge of having insinuated venality on the part of 
the doctors. He merely had said it was next to 



impossible for them not to find that for which they 
had been set to look. The doctors personally were 
above the slightest suspicion. 

The interest in this debate was sustained to a 
remafkable degree. 

The resolution was carried by a vote of sixteen to 
seven. 

Mr. Campbell, Arts ’96, acted as critic. He com- 
mented on the matter rather than on the manner 
of the speeches. He also thought that the Sopho- 
mores had overstepped the bounds of College 
etiquette by introducing into their chorus verses re- 
flecting upon their senior Years. Mr. Macmaster, 
in moving the adjournment of the meeting, requested 
the members to give their thoughtful consideration 
to the motion he had made on a previous occasion. 
It is moved by Mr. Macmaster that we change our 
night of meeting from Friday to Saturday. As a 
vote will probably be taken on this motion at the 
next meeting, all interested will consult their own 
interests by attending. 

Sckibus Junior. 



McGILL MINING SOCIETY. 

On Friday evening, 13th December, the usual meet- 
ing of the McGill Mining Society was held. President 
Prof. Carlyle occupying the chair, at which a most 
enjoyable paper was read by him entitled “ The 
Wealth of Mines.” 

The reader dealt in a most encouraging manner 
on the profession of Mining Engineering, and the 
possibilities of success attending it, if carried on 
under strictly business principles, proving clearly that 
the element of luck was a very minor detail, and one 
to be shunned. He also dealt to some extent with 
the discovery and rapid development of the mineral 
deposits on this continent, showing by statistics the 
marvellous increase in the out-put from year to year. 

After the usual vote of thanks was tendered Prof. 
Carlyle, Vice-President F. Rutherford took the chair, 
and turned the meeting into one of a social order as 
a farewell to Prof. Carlyle, who leaves shortly for 
British Columbia to fill an important Government 
position. 

After the reading and presenting of a short 
address from the members to Prof. Carlyle, and the 
partaking of refreshments, the Society was honored 
by short talks from Dr. Harrington and Dr. Adams, 
both of whom looked upon the departure of Prof. 
Carlyle with regret from a university standpoint, but 
with pleasure for his own sake, believing that in leav- 
ing he was certainly bettering his position. 

Prof. Carlyle then in a very few words signified 
his appreciation of what had been said and done, and 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



108 



hoped that he might see us all again and have the 
honor of addressing the Society at some future date ; 
whereupon with three cheers and the old song “ For 
He’s a Jolly Good Fellow,” the meeting adjourned. 



MONTREAL VETERINARY ASSOCIATION. 

A regular meeting was held on Thursday evening. 
Dr. Baker in the chair. 

Minutes of previous meeting were read and 
approved. The experiment committee reported 
progress in the investigation of the action of new 
drugs. 

Mr. Charles H. Higgins, B.Sc., read a paper 
on Bacteriology and its Practical Applications. He 
gave a brief historical resume of the development of 
bacteriological science, and referred to the con- 
sequent changes in the practice of medicine. 

Mi. J. Greer furnished a case report of Septic 
Aspiration Pneumonia. 

Both communications evoked an animated discus- 
sion from the members, and were voted to be of 
extraordinary merit. 

H. D. 



SOCIETY FOR THE STUDY OF COMPARA- 
TIVE PSYCHOLOGY. 

The Society met in the Library on Monday even- 
ing, the president, Dr. Mills, occupying the chair. 

Mr. Midgley reported some very interesting experi- 
ments on the special senses. At the request of the 
President he will continue his investigations, and 
report at a future meeting. 

Mr. Fred Kee read a valuable paper on “ Moral 
Sense in Animals,” which was well received by the 
members, and evoked many commendatory remarks 
on the literary and scientific treatment of the subject. 

Mr. S. Macnider presented an essay on The 
Psychology of Man and Animals, in which he com- 
pared the psychic processes of the different types- 

After a lengthy discussion, in which the papers 
were well defended, the meeting adjourned. 

H. D. 



“THE ’96 JOURNAL CLUB.” 

The Club met on Monday evening for the reading 
and discussion of two meritorious articles from the 
Veterinary Magazine. 

Mr. J. Anderson Ness read an article on Nodular 
Teniasis in Fowls, and another on Accidents Incident 
to Casting and Confining Animals for Operations. 

An interesting and instructive discussion followed. 



The reports were then received of experiments 
with new drugs, after which the meeting adjourned. 

F. W. K. 



CLASS REPORTS. 



ARTS NOTES. 

Fourth Year. 

Philosophy tells us that the mental states repre- 
sented by the words “Amo” and “Diligo” are dis- 
tin ui hed by the fact that the first is a purely nat- 
ural passion, while “ Diligo ” denotes a feeling which 

is under the dominion of Reason. S s illustrates as 

follows: “Young man meets fair girl and says 

‘ Amo ’ ; later, meets some other he likes better, and 
says ‘ Diligo ’ of the first.” 



Prof . — “ Sandstone, when squeezed in the folding 
of mountain ranges, is altered into Quartzite. ...... So 

you see what effect squeezing has.” 

Me I h . — “Jingo! I’ll never do it again.” 



Reader, pardon he above insertions. Whether it 
be due to the absence of a true college spirit (as several 
authorities of other Y ears say), or to an inherent lack of 
ability, it is a lamentable fact that the members of the 
Graduating Class do not make jokes very often. Such 
as are made are not of the most approved sort, but the 
unfortunate Class Reporter must needs make use of 
what comes to him. 



Third Year. 

Hop, skip, jump and snap your fingers, oh ! Juniors ! 
Leave all dignity to the days to come, and romp 
beneath the mistletoe as though you were schoolboys 
again. Say “ Avaunt ” to the ghosts of ‘‘ Study,” “ Ex- 
amination ” and “ Mechanics ” ; let not spectre-like 
Chaucers, Plinys nor Zenos beckon you to work ! 
Let not melancholy or foreboding feed upon your 
damask cheeks, but be merry and grow fat. 

The holidays are here. Let them be true holidays, — 
a passage from care and routine to fun and laziness. 

The Xmas-tree, the dance, the ball, the rink, the 
theatre, all hold forth invitations not to be refused. 

Be happy and light-hearted ; but, rested, cheered 
and strengthened by your conge , come back to Old 
McGill ready to work your hardest for yourself, your 
Year and your College. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



109 



14 When Mac gently heaved a broad grin 
And said 4 What a slight boy lam!’ 

He surely was lying, and he would be dying 
If he lived in the land of Siam.” 



A Junior describes the Arts-Law foot-ball match 
in the following terse epigram : 

Ball very slippery ; mud very thick ! 

Referee’s motto 44 Lawmen — free kick.” 



In a Zoology ground : 

Student . — “Please, sir, to what family does this 
little Metis belong ? ” 



Weep ye, O readers, for if ye take interest in your 
fellow-students ye have reason to be sad. 

The one-time light-hearted gatherings of ’97 have 
broken up into many parties. 

Dusky discord has thrown out its bacteria, and 
sombre strife has spread its sable subtleties over the 
once happy Year. A duel has almost been fought! 
An unworthy Junior spread base slander against a 
fellow-student. The fellow-student called him out, 
and l' affaire d'honneur was all but in progress when 
an unexpected complication set in. The slanderer 
demanded that the weapons should be snow-balls, 
while the hero insisted on cap-pistols. 

Finally, they compromised on foils. Again the 
combat was on the eve of coming off, when the slan- 
derer, growing afraid, sued for peace. 

The pugnacious germ is not stamped out, however, 
as the seconds have challenged each other, and will 
fight at sundown on the twenty-fifth, the weapons 
being Christmas trees. 



why ? Verily, reader, you are slow. Why, the exams 
of course, the which we have only recently finished, 
— that is, to say we just finished our last one an 
hour ago, and there is still racing through our heated 
brain, all the divisions, and classes, and ramifications 
of res and personas , and tutors, and curators, and 
adoptios , mixed up with legal texts of the true Justin- 
ian Latin. There is danger of the scribe becoming 
Roman Law mad. If he does, he will be an exceed 
ingly interesting maniac. Well! it is over, and now we 
shall all rest. 



Our esteemed contemporaries of the hirst Year have 
now got a pretty fair taste of real law examinations. 
Many of them profess to be losing faith in written 
exams. It is a matter, we submit, that might stand 
investigation. Then other Freshmen were mightily 
pleased over the paper on Joint Stock Companies. It 
was short, pointed, and clear, they say, and didn’t 
cover the entire wide range of corporation law ( 
and they had the whole long afternoon to battle 
with it. We are glad the Freshmen are pleased. 



Last week Dr. Trenholme delivered his last lecture 
to the students. At its conclusion a few words of 
farewell were addressed to the class. The students 
of Law feel keenly the loss which the Faculty of Law' 
sufferb at the retirement of Dr. Trenholme. lie has 
been more than a friend to them. Three rousing 
cheers were called for and given as the Dean 
withdrew from the class-room. 



SCIENCE NOTES. 



Second Year Notes. 



Exams ! ! ! 



First Year Notes. 
More Exams ! ! ! 



Fourth Year. 

Notes are few and far between nowadays, as lec- 
tures have stopped, and many of the students have 
gone home for the holidays. The time of those who 
remain is well occupied by examinations, which are 
too serious to be joked about. 



LEGAL BRIEFS. 

If the persistent Editor who presses for reports 
could only see the legal scribe, as he sits down to pen 
a line or two for his column, he would pity his sad 
condition. Thin and haggard and pale-faced, and 
very melancholy, he is in no disposition of body or 
mind to disport himself gaily, as is his wont, in this 
sprightly column. For why? as the psalm-book says, 



The Fourth Y ear Mechanical and Electrical students 
finished the term by an excursion to the low level 
pumping station, on Friday, the 13th, where they 
spent some hours inspecting the machinery in general 
and the Columbian pump in particular. The indica- 
tors were fitted to this pump, and were kept busy 
until each student was supplied with a set of cards 
from high, low, and water cylinders. Owing to an 
accident to one of the other pumps necessitating the 



1 10 



McGill fortnightly 



use of low pressure steam, the pump was not work- 
ing at “high duty,” so that the cards were rather 
disappointing, as they did not show the characteristic 
points of “ high duty ” pump cards. 

One of the party (not a student) will remember 
this visit. He will also remember where the Worth- 
ington pumps are made. 



At the H — L — exam. C — . — “ Shall we write what 
is in the book or what we know about question III ? ” 

Professor “ Oh ! write all you know, I know it is 
not very much.” 

The class smiled audibly. W — r thought it so 
funny he smiled again, and the Prof, said : —Perhaps 
Mr. W — r can tell us all about it.” 

W — r neither answered nor smiled. 



\ 

The old saying “ As slow as a snail ” has been 
changed to “ As slow as the building of an air com- 
pressor, ” by the Mechanical students. 



Those of our students who are taking astronomy 
have ere this learned of the “ immensity of space. ” 
In hunting for College news for this issue our re- 
porters have learned to their sorrow the same fact, 
even the “immensity” only extends over a page of 
the Fortnightly. 



Third Year. 

//. T.— “ How many feet in a knot ? ” 
F. Y.— “6160 feet.” 

H. T . — “ Not exactly.” 

F. T. — “Yes, a knot exactly. 



Second Year. 

Examinations, which are expected to bring results. 



First Year. 

The French class were surprised to learn, the other 
day, that the walls of Paris were 500 feet high on the 
outside. 



Is it not bad enough to be fined for a bit of a 
“scrap”, without going into lecture directly after- 
ward and being lectured on “ Taxes and sinking 
funds.” 



Professor . — Can you explain how + changes to — 
in passing through o. 

Student. — Why, yes, the 1 line of the 4 - sticks 
while the — slips through. 



COMPARATIVE MEDICINE CLASS NOTES. 

Dean McEachran was tendered an ovation by the 
students on his first appearance in the lecture room 
after his trip to the Nor’ West. 



It is to be hoped that no time will be lost in com- 
mencing work after the holidays. As one Final man 
expressed it, the amount of “ work to be done before 
spring is appaling.” 



Our only Jimmy has signified his intention of ac- 
cepting a position on the police force, provided he is 
detailed to patrol St. Catherine street. 



The Reporter, having scoured the whole com- 
munity in quest of news, retires to his “ den ” in des- 
pair. What, oh ye gods, can be done ? There is no 
one left to make “jooks” now. Some of our number 
are in the vicinity of the roaring Atlantic, others 
have gone to the warlike Republic, while still more 
have fled merely to the neighboring Provinces. Of 
those who remain, some having nothing to do have 
gone into a dormant state, while the rest are bat- 
tling with the fierce tide of examinations. The 
deluge has even reached the Reporter, and has fairly 
carried away his stock of notes so that there is no- 
thing left to delight your readers. 



Charlie H. has laid in a supply of poultry for the 
holiday season. Lunches served at the laboratory on 
short notice. 



Have some of the ’96 men quarrelled with their 
barber, or has the “ general fund ” been depleted ? 



Elections are rife at this season, and, as a result 
Mr. John Greer will represent the Faculty on the 
skating rink committee; Mr. Charles H. Higgins, B.S , 
will be speaker at the University banquet; and Mr 
Wallis, ’98, is now “ official ” soloist for the Faculty! 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



1 1 1 



Look out for the report of the students’ annual 
Chris', mas concert in the next issue. 



“Venus in Modern Literature” is the title of a 
work to be published in the near future by a ’96 man. 



The students of the Third Y ear are very grateful for 
the valuable information imparted to them as regards 
the administration of anaesthetics. We have been 
informed that it is absolutely necessary to remove 
false teeth and loosen corsets before proceeding to 
administer the anaesthetic. We take it for granted 
that this applies more especially to our friend the 
horse after having placed him in a recumbent posi- 
tion. 



Mr. G. H. Lambert will visit New York, Engle- 
wood, N.J., and Boston, Mass., during the holidays. 



Prof . — “ What muscle is this ? ” 
J. G. P . — “The Longus brevis.” 
Prof . — “ No, sir.” 

J. G. P.— “ Yes, sir.” 

Prof . — “ Plucked.” 



LOST. The Class Reporter for the Second Year. 
Any information concerning him will be gratefully 
received. 



“ Herbert ” has once more resumed study, in view 
of the approaching supplemental in Chemistry. 



EXCHANGES. 

Copies of The University Cyme, from the University 
of Vermont at Burlington, have been received and 
read with pleasure. They prove to us that good 
work may be done by a staff of but four editors. In 
a sketch of the life of the late Henry Houghton, the 
Cynic brings to our notice one of the noblest sons of 
the University of Vermont. He was graduated from 
that University in 1846, and since then has become 
known to most of us as a partner in the publishing 
house of Houghton, Mifflin & Co. In this sketch the 
following extract is given from the New England 
Magazine , for October: “Few men in New England 
have begun life at greater disadvantages, developing, 
as they were needed, the sterling qualities which 
lead to success, and not narrowing as life goes on 



the range of sympathies and the interest in wider 
things which constitute public usefulness. The boy 
who dared to enter college with but a shilling in his 
pocket, and who closed his life, full of years and of 
happiness, as the foremost publisher in New England, 
will long be honored and remembered as a represent- 
ative New England citizen.” These words must 
surely have inspired the students at Henry Hough- 
ton’s Alma Mater. 

“Sextus” writes an interesting account of the 
history and management of their “ Commons Hall,” 
where table-board is provided for the students at the 
cost of two dollars and a half per week, the bill of fare 
being “ plain, but ample and substantial.” 

We envy the men and women of this University 
their Art Gallery, an interior view of which is given ; 
but when libraries are compared, we feel we have the 
advantage. Our library’s electric light is “ free, gratis, 
for nothing,” but we learn through an editorial that 
in the University of Vermont “gas costs money ” 
when used in the alcoves of the library, and it is sug- 
gested, in order to defray the expense, that the stu- 
dents pay “ five cents per hour for the privilege of 
lighting a single alcove.” 

The Cynic verse, of which there is no stinted sup- 
ply, seems to us especially good for undergraduate 
production, and if space permitted we would like to 
quote at large from it. “The Hurdy-Gurdy Man,” 
however, must have a hearing, even though it is only 
the close of his pathetic tale : 

“Old IIurdy-Gurdy, you and I 
Will not be missed much when I die ; 

Your voice is cracked, although you try 
To serve your Hurdy-Gurdy man. 

“ But now you’re sadly out of tune, 

It is our lives’ late afterno >n, 

And I'll stop grinding pretty soon; — 

Old Hiudy Gurdy man.’’ 

A good college paper from a Canadian town may 
be sure of a warm welcome from us; such a one L 
The Mitre from Bishop’s College, Lennoxville. 

We would congratulate the editors on obtaining for 
their paper such a fine review of the “ Life and Let- 
ters of Adam Sedgwick,” as that which is continued 
through the first two numbers of The Mitre. Per- 
haps the next best thing to reading the two volumes 
themselves would be to read this review. The Ven. 
Archdeacon Roe writes his “ Reminiscences of the 
E arliest Lennoxville Days” in a most interesting 
manner; and one of the students, we take it to be, 
gives an amusing account of his summer experiences 
in the Muskoka region. Among the descriptions of 
the visitors there is that of “ the small boy— the Mus- 
koka holiday one,” who is said to be “ an amphibious 
animal — his bathing hours being 9 to 12, 2 to 6 ; meals 



I 12 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



at all hours. His color is Vermillion shading down to 
russet brown in various specimens. Costume out of 
water, non-descriptive.” 

Several other good articles must be passed over, 
but the “ School Notes ” should be mentioned, for 
they show us that the boys of Bishop’s College School 
well deserve their representation on The Mitre' s staff, 
“A Chiefs amang yer takin’ notes” is the quotation 
which introduces them to us, and the “ Chiel ” certainly 
does justice to everyone from the Bishop of Quebec 
down to the “ New Boy.” 

We are pleased to receive two papers from ladies’ 
colleges : The College Folio from Allentown, Pa., and 

The Sunbeam from Whitby, Ontario. Both of these 
contain well written articles, and are bright and inter- 
esting throughout. 

In the Allentown college very delightful entertain, 
ments have been given by the Seniors and Juniors, to 
which they invited friends outside of the college. We 
enjoyed the descriptions of these, and hope soon to 
learn that their younger sisters are not to be outdone 
by ’96 and ’97 in social functions. 

The young ladies of Whitby College have recently 
held the debate : “ Resolved, that Man has more con- 
ceit than Woman. ’ The remarks of the four speakers 
are given in full, and although it seems to us that the 
vote should have favored the speakers on the negative, 
we would like to learn the opinion of those present 
at the debate. 



READABLE PARAGRAPHS. 



An Australian Court Anecdote. 

The stories of early Australian judges are numer- 
ous and incredible. The following incident, which 
is vouched for as a fact, is of a judge who had a lofty 
idea of his own legal capacity, and was at the same 
time anxious to sustain the dignity of his court : A 

“shooting case” came before him. There was no 
direct evidence as to who was the perpetrator of the 
murder, but the individual arrested was well known, 
and indeed confessed the deed. When brought into 
court, the judge cautioned the prisoner that he must 
remember his rights as a free citizen, and that, above 
all things, he must not interrupt the proceedings of 
the court. After this friendly warning the judge 
proceeded to state that he, the prisoner, was accused 
of having, on such a date, shot the deceased. Upon 
this the prisoner broke in, “ Well, an’ so I did.” 

The judge was annoyed at the interruption. 
“ Hold your tongue, sir ! ” he exclaimed. “ Haven’t I 
told you not to commit yourself nor to interrupt 



me ? I shall commit you for contempt of court if you 
do so again !” he added sternly. He then repeated 
the accusation, upon which the prisoner broke in : 

“ I have told ye afore that I killed — ” 

The judge’s indignation was intense at this second 
interruption, and he demanded : “ Mr. Sheriff, 

what is your evidence ? ” 

“ I have nothing but circumstantial evidence, your 
Honor, and the prisoner’s own confession.” 

“Then,” said the judge, “ I discharge the prisoner 
on this accusation, but commit him for contempt of 
court.” 



A Good Test. 

The following is told of a judge before whom a 
man was being tried for stealing a gold watch from 
a woman as she was entering a ’bus. The man 
declared that the watch was his, and the woman was 
mistaken in identifying it as hers. 

Suddenly the judge asked, “ Where is the key ? ” 

The prisoner fumbled in his pockets, and said he 
must have left it at home. 

The judge asked him if he wound the watch fre- 
quently with the key. 

He said “ Yes.” 

Then the key was produced ; watch and key were 
handed to the prisoner, and he was told to wind it 
He opened the case, but could not find any place to 
use the key, because the watch was a keyless one ! 

Sentence : Five years ! 



Youthful Humorist. — “ I have a number of little — 
er — witticisms which I should like to submit.” 

Editor (suspiciously).— “Any mother-in-law 

jokes ? ” 

“No, indeed.” 

“ Plumber jokes ? ” 

“ No, sir.” 

“ Boarding-house jokes ?” 

“No, sir.” 

“Jokes about mashers ? ” 

“ No, sir.” 

“ I thought not. Your matter won’t do. We 
don’t want any amateur stuff here.” 



C oh c 'ey s at ion heard m a New York house. 

“You are very independent people,” said the tour- 
ist from England, “ but you can’t deny that you owe 
a great deal to Christopher Columbus.” 

Oh, I don t know,” replied the self-reliant young 
American woman ; “ this country made his reputa- 
tion for him, you know.” 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



1 1 3 



Irish nurse (shaking patient vigorously). — “ Come, 
now, sor-r, wake up an’ swallow yer slapin’ dose ; 
it’s time.” 



Gushing Relative.— “Oh, oo ittleteenty weenty 
toozie oozie sing! Turn here and et me kiss its ittle 
turly tootsie-wootsie, oo itty pitty sing.’’ 

School-Board Baby.— 1 1 really beg your pirdon, 
madam, but owing to what is perhaps a foolish pre- 
judice on mamma’s part, I have not been allowed to 
commence my language studies. I am very sorry, 
but I will have to ask you to address me solely in 
the English tongue.” 



Judge Noonan of the San Antonio District Court, 
is also the proprietor of a stock ranch in Medina 
County. He was recently called on in his official 
capacity to pronounce sentence on a horse thief. Said 
the Judge blandly : — “ Are you aware of any 
circumstance that entitles you to consideration at my 
hands ? ” 

“ Yes, your Honor, I am.” 

“ What is it ? ” 

“ The horse I stole didn’t belong to you, I think 
you ought to take that into consideration.” 



Ontario Medical— e®- 
College for Women, Ltd. 

TORONTO, Ont. 



13th SESSION 1895 to 1896 

S TUDENTS are prepared for the Examinations 
of all Canadian Licensing Boards, Universities, 
etc. . . • 

FEES, $90 PER ANNUM 
Apply for Calendar to 

D GIBB WISHART, 

-Registrar 



Pelletier 



Organist of St. James Cathe- 
dral and Professor of the 
Piano and Organ. 



' -'2yd m 



<v <- 



f S’ f* jo for a ****** 




X'* - — ~~ **** 






for , 





r , 4- C‘ 



TRANSLATION. 

Montreal, 28tli November, 1893. 

Mr. L. E. N. Pratte, Montreal : 

Dear Sir.— The upright pianos of your make— if one may form a 
judgment from the one I have acquired — possess a combination of all the 
qualities esteemed by musicians, a liquid and singing quality of tone entirely 
free from all overtones and rumbling sounds so frequently found in upright 
pianos, a touch so light and elastic as to answer to the most vigorous attack 
and the lightest pressure,— in fact, capable of the most varied effects. Allow 
me to congratulate you on your good work. 

Yours, etc. R. Oct. Pelletier. 



It is only necessary to know the delicate and conscientious artist 
who has written the above letter to form an idea of the high value of 
such an opinion. 6°e have a large assortment of PRATTE Pianos, 
similar to Mr. Pelletier’s, as we manufacture only one size and one 
quality. 

Prices reasonable. Terms easy. Old instruments taken in exchange. 

PRATTE PIANO CO. 




PATERSON & FOSTER 

Reichert’s Microscopes 

Acknowledged to be the best line in the Dominion 

Used in the Bacteriological Laboratories of the ... STAINS and ACCESSORIES 

• • • 

Royal Victoria and Montreal General Hospitals ,N STOCK 



SOLE 

AGENTS 

FOR 



DISSECTING CASES, SKELETONS, SKULLS, STETHOSCOPES, THERMOMETERS, 

And all Students’ Requirements 



GET OUR 



QUOTATIONS 




21 Phillips Square, MONTREAL 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



1 14 



The WIGHTMAN SPORTING GOODS CO. 

403 St. Paul Street 



Winter hshhh- 

Sporting 

-sshss- Goods 

Hockey Sticks 
Hokey Shin Guards 
Hockey Pucks 

Snow Shoes 
Moccasins 
Skates 

Boxing Gloves, $2.00 up 
Punching Bags, $2.50 up 

SPECIAL PRICES TO CLUBS. 





Tl)e Wi^tnjai) Sporting Goods Co., 

403 ST- PAUL ST., (on Place Roy ale,) MONTREAL. 



