


TheMcGILL GAZETTE 



Vol. III.— New Series. MONTREAL, NOVEMBER i, 1876. No. 1. 



Poetry. — Died— A Hero - 

The Sun -God - 

Health - 

Glee Club 

Applied Science - 

Hook Notices - 

Editorials 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

I Foot -Hall 

1 The Athletic Sports - 

2 Foot-Ball Challenge 

3 Graduates Association 

3 Personals and Exchanges 

3 The Freshman Classes 

4 Items - 



5 

5 

6 

7 

7 

8 
8 



The McGill Gazette is published Monthly during the College Year by the Undergraduates of the University . Terms , 

% 1.00 per annum ; Single t'opies, 20 Cents. For sale at Drysdale's } Dawson's , and Hill's. Subscriptions and Advertisements 
to be sent to tlte Secretary , McGdl College . Contributions should be directed to the Editors , McGill College. 

The Gazette requests contributions of Tales , Essays, and all suitable Literary Matter from University men. It will open 
its columns to any controversial matter connected with the College , provided the communications are written in a gentlemanly 
ma/nner. 

All Matter intended for Publication must be accompanied by the Name of the Writer in a Sealed Envelope, which will be 
opened if the Contribution is inserted, but will be destroyed if rejected. This rule will be strictly adhered to. 



MACMASTEk & HALL, 


1 FRANK J, KELLER, 


AdroraUs, 


gtdwatr, Barrister, faliritar, &t., 




Chambers, 1, 2, 3 & 4, First Floor, Up-Stairs. 


181 ST. JAMES STREET. 


— OVER— 

CITY AND DISTRICT SAVINGS BANK, 




No. 178 ST. JAMES STREET, 


D. MACMASTER, B.C.L. J. S. HALL, Jk., B.A., B.C.L. 


MONTREAL. 


•I . I) . A If 1) E R m 0 N . 


Wo 


MERCHANT TAILOR, 


President of the Centennial Photographic Co., Philadelphia, 



© 

~© 

3 

CO 

5 * 

c ° 

J 5 

© 

s: c 

.o 

c 

n 

a 

V. 

.a 

*3 



<2 







«■ <s 



© 

Co 



8- 

3 



MECHA-'NICS’ hall building. 

206 ST. JAMES STREET 



Tt 



|}I|oto0Va|iljcii to tl \t (‘hiccic 



MONTREAL, CANADA 



CLASS PHOTOGRAPHER. 



YALE 

HARVARD 

PRINCETON .... 
DARTMOUTH .... 

McGILL 

WESLEYAN COLLEGE 
LAFAYETTE COLLEGE - 
PRINCETON SEMINARY - 
ANDOVER SEMINARY - 
PHILLIPS’ EXETER ACADEMY 
ABBOTT ACADEMY 



72 73, 75. 7t», and 77 
74, 75, and 76 
74, 75, and 76 
74, 75, 76, and 77 
74, 75, and 76 
- - 75 

- - - - 77 

- 74, 75, and 76 

74, uni 75 
- 74, ani 75 
• 76 






THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



VICTORY 

CROWNS OUR EFFORT 



IN OFFERING THE 



BEST FITTING CLOTHING 

IN THE MARKET. 

O’HARA db SORT, 

19 ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STREET. 



ULSTERS AND OTHER OVERCOATS A SPECIALTY, 

AND AT VERY LOW RATES. 

Students wit/ find it to their advantage to trade here. 



TO MEDICAL MEN. 

SPECIALTY, 

OUTFITTING OF MEDICAL STOCKS 

COMPRISING A (JOOI> ASSORTMENT OF 

SHELF BOTTLES, SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS, &o„ 

IN' CASES AND OTHERWISE. 



THE PUREST OF DRUGS GIVEN AT REASONABLE PRICES. 



LAV! 0 LETT E & NELSON, 

CHEMISTS, 

215 NOTRE DAME STREET, 

(Second door west of St. Gabriel) 

MONTREAL. 



McGILL COLLEGE TEXT BOOKS. \ McGILL college text books. 

W. DRYSDALE & CO. 

Invite the attention of Students and others to their large 
assortment of 

Standard Library Books 



Dawson Bros. 

Keep always on hand a full supply of all the 

Text Books in use at the College, 

ALSO, 

STATIONERY IN ALL VARIETY. 



STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 
STUDENTS’ POCKET INK BOTTLES .! 



Latest Editions always in Stock at Lowest Prices. 

J&SsT CATALOGUES MAILED FREE. 

232 ST. JAMES STREET. 232 



AND 



HEARN & HARRISON, 

IMPORTERS AND MANUFACTURERS O? 

IfaB&s. Irnnsit f kodolitts, 

Levels and Surveying Instruments, 

Drawing Instruments. Magic Lanterns, 

MICROSCOPES, THERMOMETERS, dc., dc., 

I 

SIGN OF THE ADMIRAL, 
FOR SALE at /|/ os> 2 42 & 244 NOTRE DAME ST., 

159 ST. STBEET. 



note: paper and envelopes 

Stamped with the University Die for the use of Students. 



MONTREAL. 



The McGILL GAZETTE 

Vol. III. — New Series. MONTREAL, NOVEMBER i, 1876. No. 1. 



DIED -A HERO. 

They say the day of chivalry is past, 

And but its mantle clothes the present age; 

That foes be not so fierce nor friends so fast 
As once, when war was manhood’s heritage. 

They say that with the lance and hammer’d helm 
Has passed away the dauntless flush of youth, 

And that the sneers of fashion overwhelm 
The little left of earnestness and truth. 

But there survives within the modern soul 
A courage high as that of Uther’s son, 

And many an ocean heart’s full tide- waves roll 
As grandly yet as those of knights have done. 

Out of an alien land the western breeze 

Comes ringing, with a tale to warm our veins, 

Of one of those whom Azrael sometimes frees 
To teach the world the greatness it retains. 

At noon, in Northfield, everything was still ; 

The busy bustle of a prairie town 

Had calmed itself awhile against its will, 

And people to their meal had settled down. 

The bank was open, but the listless wind 
Bore in a sound of hurried steps no more ; 

Two clerks were chatting leisurely behind 
The counter, and no tradesman stood before. 

So thus sat Haywood with another there, 

When, suddenly a sound alarmed the street — 

A sound as of fast freebooters that swear, 

Of shots and shouts, of hoofs and running feet. 

And straightway, too, before the very door, 

Those desperadoes stopped in full career ; 

And three sprang fiercely in, across the floor, 

While Haywood’s friend fled through a portal near. 

On Haywood, then, the thieves seized angrily, 

And held their bright revolvers at his head ; 

“ The secret of the safe ?” they cried, all three, 

“ The combination ? Quick, or you are dead !” 

Surprised at first, yet quiet in his mien, 

He saw it profitless to fight or fly ; 

The burglars raved, their steel arms glittered clean, 
But stolidly he set his face to die. 

No word he spoke ; but visions met his gaze 
Of mother and his native northern land, 

While youthful years and earlier childish days 
Rose up, as at a mighty spell’s demand. 

And then he saw his dear, sweet children, rise ; 

And lastly, too, his dearer, sweeter wife ; 

Yet, though this agony burned in his eyes, 

He still set honor higher than his life. 



And all this time the fury of the three 

Grew hotter, and their oaths came loud and fast ; 

They stormed, they shook him, but his soul was free, 
And that, at least, kept steady to the last. 

The town was roused. Again a sound was heard 
Of shots and shouts, of hoofs and running feet ; 

But now the whole community was stirred, 

And poured pursuers on an echoing street. 

# # * * * * * 

“ Christ help us, friends ! was that a pistol shot p 
And be those murderers that just now fled ? 

And is this Haywood here, or is it not, 

Who lies so still, for trust and honor dead ?” 

******* 

Is this not nobler than the warlike deeds 
Of those that for a worthless glory fought ? 

Is such ambition less than that which feeds 
Upon the ruin that an arm has wrought ? 

Canadians ! he was one of you ; a youth 
Born in a land of snow and honest men ; 

And many like him walk your soil, forsooth, 

And many like him shall ye know again. 



THE SUN-GOD. 

Baldur was the youngest of Scandinavian deities, and his 
story the most beautiful of Northern myths. Odin' his sire, 
is the great, mysterious All-Father, that Gothic Jove, who was 
so far above the Olympian in much of his character. His 
wife, Freyja, Baldur’s mother, was the ideal type of a grand, 
lovely goddess, golden haired and blue-eyed. She was 
entrusted with the secrets of the future, a knowledge entailing 
vast anxiety on even a divine mind. At any rate, when her 
youngest son was born, she grew restless, and in spite of the 
reigning joy, could hardly raise a smile, till finally, to satisfy 
herself, she journeyed through all the earth, exacting a promise 
from everything, never to aid in harming her boy. A ready 
response was given ; rock, river, tree, shrub, man, and ali the 
animals returned glad answers, for they loved the splendid 
being who even now drew hearts to himself. At last, her duty 
almost done, Freyja turned towards Asgard, city of gods, and 
came to the wood near it. Here she enlisted the straight ash, 
swaying linden and calm, gnarled oak, but just as she turned 
from the latter, her eye caught the thick-leaved mistletoe 
clinging to a bough. But her feet were weary, her home was 
near, and she went away with the thought, “ It is not worth 
the trouble.” Just as she was turning, a shadow glided from 
behind her, and disappeared in the gloom, while she herself 
made straight for Asgard and told her story to the other 
divinities. 

Years passed by, each adding grace to Baldur’s form, and 
geniality to his heait, till in process of time, an event occurred 




2 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



which was destined to darken every memory. It was his 
natal day, and the gods gathered to honor their favorite 
companion with music and games, one of the latter being to 
set Baldur as a mark for stones and arrows, which dropped 
harmless to the grouud. Now Loki, the Scandinavian Satan, 
ha f ed this glad youth, who always spoiled the quarrels which 
the former himself delighted to make. He envied his 
popularity; he determined his ruin. No sooner then did he 
see the kind of sport on the tapis, than he hurried off to the 
forest, and cut a long stem of mistletoe, remarkably straight 
for that plant. This he had long ago selected and watched 
in growth, and as he carried ii home, he trimmed and shaped 
it with care, cutting off a knot, smoothing a corner and 
sharpening the top to a fine point. In this manner he reached 
the city, and looked on at the game, where every god seemed 
in the highest spirits. One only was sad ; one only stood 
apart. Hodur was blind. His history was such a string of 
misfortunes, that even the gods never whispered the dreadful 
blunders he had made. Here then was Loki’s chance. 
Stepping up to him, he called out cheerily, “ Why, O Hodur, 
drawest thou no bow at Baldur’s feast?” “Alas!” was the 
reply, “thou knowest I cannot see.” “Take then my bow,” 
said the wily one, “ and I will direct thine arm, that thou 
mayst not be comfortless, in the midst of joy.” One moment 
more and Baldur’s heart was pierced. 

How great was the confusion, how boundless the grief, 
when those laughing deities saw the arrow in his breast, his 
lips so bloodless, and his face so deadly white ; but immediate 
steps were taken to restore him, and Hermode the messenger 
was despatched on Odin’s steed, to the regions of Hela, their 
female Pluto. Dashing over a golden bridge and past the 
door keeping maiden, he hastens into the mouth of Hades, 
where he overtakes Baldur himself, and the dead one says 
— 4hat if all things weep for him, his return is possible. Freyja, 
on hearing this, sends envoys over the earth, and everything 
drops its tear — everything but an old hag found spinning in a 
cave. Her name is Thok, and she persistantly hums a lefusal, 
to the whirr of her wheel. 

Long waited the messenger, long he entreated, but Fhok 
was Loki in disguise and consequently inexorable, so a return 
had at last to be made to Asgard. Baldur’s body was taken 
on board his own ship ; this was launched, and they were 
about to light it, when Nanna, his wife, sprang on board 
declaring that she would join her dear one in death. 
Solemnly the torch was applied, slowly the vessel drifted off, 
and as the flames died over the horizon, the whole assembly 
broke up with a sense of doom. 

ihis name. Baldur, is etymologically, as well as mythically, 
connected with A-pol-lo and our Biblical Baal, but the Greek 
deity alone approaches the gothic in grandeur. From the 
imperfect story above, you can have i.o conception of the 
brilliant, pure Sun-god, so altogether admirable, so entirely 
sweet. Phoebus, it is true, has characteristics that make him 
the noblest of Hellenic ideals, but these, even to a partial 
reader, must grow dim before the greatness of Odin’s son. 



HEALTH. 



A Hopeless Balance. — Horace Greeley used to tell this 
story : — He once sent a claim for collection to a Western 
lawyer, and, regarding it as rather a dubious debt, told the 
attorney if he collected it he might reserve half the amount 
for a fee. In due time Mr. Greeley received the following 
laconic epistle : “ Dear Sir, I have succeeded in collecting 
my half of that claim. '1 he balance is hopeless.” 

Thomas Fuller, the quaint old English divine, has in- 
scribed over his dust, in Westminster Abbev, “Here lies 
Fuller’s earth ! ” 



The plea of ill health having been urged to one of our 
Professors, not long since, he remarked, rather facetiously, 
that “ illness and idleness were one and the same thing,” no 
allowance being made for either.” Such being the case, no 
student can afford to be sick during the College Session, and 
all must therefore endeavour to maintain the even balance of 
health. Those who desire to reach that state of greater 
health which we call strength, do so, we have often observed, 
at the expense of their college duties ; we do not hold this to 
be absolutely true, but that such is frequently the case is 
undeniable. However, to the hard-working student, a few 
words with regard to the preservation of health may not be 
amiss. In the first place, then, comes exercise, about which 
so much has already been said and written, that a very few 
words from us will suffice. Health depends on the harmo- 
nious action of all the faculties and functions, the disuse 
of any of which causes loss in the tissue peculiar to that 
function. For example, disuse of the intellectual faculties 
produces an appreciable diminution and softening of the 
brain matter ; the same thing happens to the muscles when 
not exercised. Walking, whether combined with gymnastic 
exercises or not, will ever be found to be very beneficial. 
The late Georges Sand (Madame Dudevant) was a great 
walker ; Macaulay was rarely off his feet, indoors or out ; his 
biographer says, “The only exercise in which he can be said to 
have excelled was that of threading crowded streets with his 
eyes fixed upon a book.” The next point, though by some it 
may be considered vulgar, is still one of great importance, — 
viz., eating and drinking. Food, as is generally known and 
acknowledged, should be plain and substantial ; for cerebral 
and sanguineous purposes nothing can be better than good 
oatmeal porridge. Some one may remark that this savours 
of the Scotchman, but, however that may be, we heartily 
agree with him in having a high opinion of oatmeal, and in 
this respect we practice what we preach; not that we wish to 
have it understood that we, as the witty Sidney Smith used 
to say of poor Scotch students, “ study the arts and sciences 
on oatmeal,” but we have always regaided and used it as a 
beneficial article of diet. Food, then, should be plain, 
substantial and ncu ishing ; meals should be taken at regular 
hours, and with due deliberation and cheerfulness, since no 
habit is more pernicious than that of bolting food ; eager 
students, too, will even read while at their meals, the result 
being that both brain and stomach are enfeebled. The evil 
effects of close rooms and bad ventilation must be well 
known to our readers. Bad air can never make good blood, 
nor impure blood healthy bodies. We would, therefore, advise 
students to throw open their windows whenever they go out, 
and if the window be so situated as not to send a' draught 
directly across the sleeper, let it by all means be left partial ly 
open during the night. Students, too, are great sinners in 
regard to sleep ; of the beneficial effects of the “ early to bed 
and early to rise ” system we can say nothing from expe- 
rience, but should suppose it to be a healthy practice, when it 
can be carried out in a natural and easy way. Nothing can 
be more healthful and stimulating than a cold bath of a 
morning, when judiciously made use of ; if used injudiciouslv 
it may become the source of great and serious harm. Let it 
be then borne in mind by all, that the mens sana, though 
greatly to be desired, is, without the corpus sanum to sustain 
it, worse than useless. 



Student (translating a disputed passage in “ Isocrates. My editor 
says this is an emendation.” 3 

I f of* Oh! no matter; ’tis * impossible to say.* f> 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



3 



GLEE CLUB. 



Scarcely at 9 a.m. this morning, had we risen from our 
frugal Editorial roll and coffee, {sans sucre, sans /ait) when we 
hailed with satisfaction the announcement now appearing in 
our columns, that this club had resumed its weekly meetings 



give help and encouragement, it may form the nucleus of an 
important and useful institution. It was organized so late in 
the session of 1875 6 that its founders were unable to give 
proper care to its organization ; but Mr. McLeod, who has 
taken a deep interest in the Society all along, has called a 
* meeting of graduates to consider how it can best be placed 
firm and useful basis. The annual meeting will be 



’ ; r “ upon a lirm ana usetui oasis, ine annual meeting wm ue 

Although from various reasons several of last year’s members I held in lhe second week in November, when officers for the 



have left, their places have been eagerly supplied by our 
younger colleagues of the junior year, together with those of 
our seniors who could have wished, but were unable last 
session, to help an institution worthy in every way of College 
support. Dr. Harrington, to whom the club owes so much, 
has been re-elected President, and Mr. Houghton, Conductor : 
and we have no doubt that in Messrs. A. Taylor, B.A., and 
C. Lyman, the club will find respectively a diligent Secretary- 
Treasurer and a kenning Business Manager. The club 
meets for practice punctually at 8 o’clock on Tuesday 
evenings, alternately at Dr. Harrington’s and the Secretary’s 
(Mr. Taylor), until further notice. 

The zeal with which the objects of this club have been 
supported, shew that to a certain extent, a want among us has 



coming year will be elected, and the alterations [if any] in the 
constitution be effected. One noteworthy feature in the 
organization of the society, was the energy with which the 
Science students took it up, every sludent but one joining 
and attending the meetings. Read and ponder, ye indolent 
men of Arts. 



BOOK NOTICES. 



Hamerton’s Intellectual Life — This 
which made its appearance some time ago, 



excellent work, 
is perhaps one 



of the most sensible, and at the same time most likely 



been supplied : the want felt by the hard-working student of * , , ^ . . , c 

1 • a , • u * a j- u- * , to be beneficial to students of any that we are acquainted 

some kind of relaxation, which, not offending his mental _ 11 , , r iie ^ 

u ’ , , 1 1 & • : with. Its range is too widely expended for us to attempt 

capacities bv puerility on the one hand, or labouriousness on > b , c . r ' r •. w r^ r m 

4.1. . A 1 u • u • ’ , . , • 1 , i more than a very brief outline of it. Written in the lorm 

the other, nevertheless brings them into play. And this leads : ^ , and { n an easv , almost conversational style, it 

us on to the question, “ Why should not we at McGill, make ; . lia ’ rly agreeab le ro both student and general reader, 

a more senous study of this Art, and have as in other large w & J * h section devoted t0 the s( f bject c f educa- 
Umversit.es, a Musical Chair ? Education is not the . w £ ich ht t0 interest stud ents, let us say a few 
qualifying a man to pounce with greater dexterity upon his j ^ In it th | principle of an early choice of a specialty is 

q ien , ’ *j na in 8 ■“ 0 ri , Ve a ar K er , argai "^P ( ? n ,, e i brought forward ; this, of course, is all very well when a per- 
Stock Exchange ; but the means whereby (as our childhood s ; SQn shows ’ a marked talent in any particular direction, 

copy books say, roundhand) he may “shun vice, lollow j b amo'g the £T«at majority this is faf ^x>m being the ca« 5 
right, so that by gazing on a fine picture, or listening to a . {his re % * as in "others, the true course wiinSe~ 
noble symphony he is a better man, in a word, having less found be the medium between smattering on the one hand 
love of evil in his nature, and more of what is good. Now : , . rr_, flyfAn 

. ,, r ,. n , 1 I*.* , \ and extreme specializing on the other. Mr. Hamerton ob* 

Mother McGill has spread a splendid board, whereon are . . ,, ~ nccpr tinn 

« jv/ r 1 • i %r .1 • 1 . iects to s.11 muemomc contnvciriccS) find nifikc s tire cissortion 

placed before us in rich profusion, Classical Mathematical , ,{ h & rationa i art of mem0 ry is that in use in the natural 

and English dishes with “ sauce k la Wa.se, but , . e in this t00 he has overlooked the f act that there are 

where the musical dish, which is to the feast the good . > ... • tint 

, r j ’ 1 t . . & ! great dissimilarities in different mental organisms, so tnat 

wine or cham under the present social pressure, we f & - ... . ® • • 



feel 



what may to one mind be extremely pernicious, may to 



compelled to say though with a consciousness of , h er b ; , found t0 be pre-eminently useful. The remarks 

irreverence we scarce know why, ginger ale and lemonade] , Qn (he „ power of Time » H are full of s y ound) practica i wisdom. 

In the section on “ Women and Marriage” the necessity for 



is totally wanting. Minerva forgive us ! Too true it is 
that the voice of Art is silent in our halls. We may only 
hope that this silence is the silent agony of a great birth, 
McGill giving to the world her Milton and Bulwer, her 
Raphael and Turner, her Bishops, Moderators of Synods, 
Judges, Lawyers, Statesmen, but, alas! if Apollo woos her 
not, — how her Beethoven, her Mozart ? 



APPLIED SCIENCE. 



We are glad to see that the number of students in Applied 
Science is increasing. Such a remark may be premature, 
because the Christmas examinations have generally proved 
somewhat unfriendly to the Freshmen, thinning their numbers 
considerably. This year, however, they seem to be pretty well 
up, and we their ex^fliiimions en masse . 

Dr. Dawson lately announced thatr tht ^aeufi ^N had secured 
tffr services of Mr. Harris, aT^ ^futiBor gP Ea ^ ineering : and 
>tnat Mr. McLeod, in addition to his former duties, would 
deliver the lectures in Surveying. This arrangement will 
certainly prove satisfactory to the students. 

We hope that the McGill Association of Engineers will be 
resolutely supported by the Science students. If the graduates 




the higher education of women is well brought out Altogether 
there is no book that we can more confidently recommend to 
students than this, for, whatever be its demerits, it will at 
least fuinish matter for thought and inquiry which much of 
the ordinary college education of the present day fails signally 
to do. 

With regard to Daniel Deronda and Trevelyan’s Ma- 
caulay, we are of the opinion that enough has already been 
said and written. A few words about George Eliot herself 
may not be amiss here. George Eliot is the noin deplume of 
Mrs. George H. Lewes, who was before her marriage a Miss 
Evans, when she gained much of her reputation as a novelist. 
She was the daughter of a poor country clergyman, and was 
adopted when quite young by a wealthy gentleman of the 
vicinity. She was a hard student, and at one time had for 
tutor the distinguished Herbert Spencer. Her first work 
was “ Scenes from Clerical Life,” which received great praise 
from Thackeray. She is now over fifty years of age, and is 
said to be very plain, having a rather long aad serious face. 
She did not marry till somewhat late in life. Her husband 
(Professor Lewes) is also noted as a writer, among the 
number of his productions being a “ History of Philosophy” 
and an excellent Life of Goethe. 






4 



THE MeGILL GAZETTE. 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



ist NOVEMBER, 1876. 



Editors for College Year. 



ARTS 

J. ROSS, 78. PH. ROSS, 78. 

d. c. McLaren, ‘78- w. d. lighthall, ’79- 

MEDICINE. 

R. JAMIESON, ’77- WM. R - SUTHERLAND, >9. 

A. J. HEN WOOD, 78. C. G. GROVES, 79. 



time, and still more precious money to such a risky and 
formidable undertaking. A paper also serves to bind the 
students together, to promote among them the aforesaid spirit 
of loyalty, and by its circulation over the country (very small 
’tis true) to promote a general interest in the college ; our 
columns, too, being open for the discussion of college matters, 
afford scope for the ventilation of all grievances, reforms, Ac. 
We wish, above all, to have it known and felt that the 
unanimous support of the students is the sine qua non of our 
success, and that it will be liberally bestowed we are too 
sanguine to doubt 



In making our re-appearance, which though late, will, it is 
hoped, be welcome, we do so with very fair expectations, 
combined with unlimited good intentions. We are well aware 
with what material a certain place is said to be paved, but, to 
the logical mind, '‘good intentions” at once divide them- 
selves into two classes, viz., those, which by being faithfully 
carried out, become successful achievements, and those, 
which not having served their purpose here, become substi- 
tutes for pavement in that warmer clime where asphalte 
and the like are obviously out of the question. To the former 
of these classes we naturally desire ours should belong, and, 
knowing that success is to be reached only by hard work and 
perseverance, we are fully prepared to purchase it at that 

pttte. The previous history of The Gazette is so varied, and 

probably so well known to most of our readers, that we shall 
simply refer to it here : the first volume, though promising 
well, unfortunately died in its infancy ; the effort made to 
revive it last year was anything but a success, owing to the 
proverbial lack of enthusiasm and support on the part of the 
students. We are this year endeavouring, by selecting 
editors from the different faculties, and thus arousing a more 
general interest, to establish The Gazette as a College 
institution. The success of this part of our project depends 
wholly upon the students themselves. Not only do we 
look to them for pecuniary support, but also for contri- 
butions of good and suitable literary matter; and we hope^ 
by publishing nothing but really good matter, to give 
intending contributors some idea of what is wanted, both as 
regards a proper choice of subjects, and the most suitable 
style of writing ; and to the younger students we would say, 
“ Do not be discouraged if your first attempts, instead of 
making the illustrious appearance expected of them, should 
be met with the cold ‘ respectfully declined,’ accompanied, 
perhaps, with a few remarks about grammar, style, &c.’> 
With regard to the purposes of a College paper, we may 
here make a few remarks. In the first place, it is one of the 
things by which a college is judged ; a good paper shows that 
there is some talent in the college, and that there is also a 
spirit of loyalty to Alma Mate /, which will devote precious 



The term “ walking the hospital,” has long been applied to 
the clinical portion of our medical studies ; but to judge from 
the way in which many of our fellow-students walk through 
the wards of our hospital, they seem to take it in its most 
literal sense. It must be annoying to the visiting physician, 
(and in fact, shows disrespect to him, and bad taste in them- 
selves), to have students leaving a ward before the visit is 
completed, and to such we would say — “ Try and find some 
fitter opportunity for leaving than when the physician or any 
one else is making an examination of a patient, in which the 
sense of hearing requires to be particularly concentrated.” 
One little word (which, we hope, will be taken good-naturedly) 
to those unfortunates who use tobacco as an article of diet, 
that is, if they expect to rate as gentlemen, they should not 
expectorate on the floor. We are certain that not one of these 
“ gentlemen ” who use the weed in our wards would do so 
if called to see a private patient ; and as speech is the index 
of the mind, why may not the manners of the present medical 
student indicate those of the coming “ Dr.” 



During our summer vacation the Governors have built an 
addition to the main building, thereby providing a large well- 
fitted reading-room, far more convenient than the old one in 
the Molson wing. Such an acquisition was formerly much 
needed, not only for the usual purposes, but as a place where 
meetings could be held at all hours, without disturbing either 
professors or their classes. Students, like other people, feel 
much more comfortable in a place they can call their own 
than in a deserted class-room, with professional strictures 
ringing in their ears, and perhaps, only a partition wall to keep 
their laughter and applause from diverting the attention of 
another class. So much for its superiority as an assembly 
room. In its strict character, it is immeasurably above the 
small, cold chamber to which, in winter, many a student ran 
shivering through the snow, or if allowed to pass by the 
Museum, found himself tumbling down the steps into 
Professor Markgraf’s domains. Worst of all, when he 
| picked himself up, he was sure to receive a sad, indignant 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



5 



lecture (gratis) from that tenant of our Teutonic Chair. 
This, if it left him time to read, took all the pleasure out of 
literature, and as he ran back, against the wind, he invariably 
registered a vow never to return. All this has been relegated 
to the past, and we hope that Freshman, Junior and Soph, 
will join us in congratulation. 



We would call the attention of our readers to the adver- 
tisements on our cover, and ask the support ot University 
men for those who patronize their institutions. Great care 
has, for the most part, been taken in obtaining the advertise- 
ments of those who sell College specialities, many of them 
offering discounted rates to students. His instinct of organ- 
ization ought to prompt every true McGill man to stand by 
whatever is connected with the College and whoever helps to 
sustain it. What we need to give us influence is a resolute 
determination to act as a body for the interests of Alma 
Mater. This alone is what constitutes esprit de corps. 



Torrance left in a few minutes, to attend a meeting at the 
college ; only seven heroes remaining to uphold the honor 
of the middle years, against fifteen seniors and freshman. 
The seven however, maintained the struggle gallantly until 
reinforced by fresh arrivals, and the return of the triumvirate. 
The best play shown during the match, was by Robertson of 
the seniors, who followed the ball untiringly. The second 
and third years were victorious by a goal, (well kicked by E. 
T. Taylor), two or three touch downs, and several rouges. 
The other side got a few rouges in the beginning of the game, 
and Robertson secured a touch later on, but the kick was a 
failure. 

The General Committee of the Club had determined to 
challenge Trinity College, Toronto, for Saturday. October 
14th, but were compelled to give up the idea of playing — 
on that day at teast — for various reasons, the chief being 
that the Lacrosse match for the championship of the world 
was to be played on that day, at Toronto. The Secretary, 
however, was instructed to write to Trinity, and see what 
could be done about a match later on in the fall. We hope 
that the matter will be satisfactorily arranged. 



THE ATHLETIC SPORTS. 



FOOTBALL. 



The University Football Club is getting its name up. It 
now possesses a team strong enough to face any fifteen in 
Canada, without fear of being too easily defeated; and the 
prospect for next year is still brighter, as only two or three of 
the present members are expecting to leave, and the remainder 
will be a year advanced in strength and skill. 

Of the two outside matches played this fall, our men were 
decidedly the strongest in the first one, that against the 
Britannias, although our team was comparatively weak ; and 
a game would probably have been taken, but time was called 
just as the ball was placed for a kick at goals. Capt. Robertson 
has appealed to the Canadian Football Association, against 
the ruling of the umpires on this occasion. 

Although the second match, “ Town vs. Gown” was a draw, 
what slight advantage there was belonged to us. It was one 
of the closest and best contested matches wnich has been 
played in Montreal for some time, the tackling and checking 
on both sides being magnificent. No remarkable individual 
play was shown on either side, excepting perhaps, two or three 
good runs by Irwin, of the Town, towards the end of the 
match. As usual McGill was unable to bring its best fifteen 
on the ground ; we don’t suppose it ever will acccmplish such 
a feat. Evans could not play ; Fleet was forbidden to on 
account of some injury to his leg, and McDougall, formerly 
one of our best players, does not seem inclined to trouble 
himself much about football this year. 

The practice on the College grounds was well attended 
every day, until Gymnasium and wet weather combined, 
interrupted it. The regular practice days now are Tuesdays, 
Thursdays and Saturdays, and we hope that members of the 
Club will be present on these days sharp at 4 o’clock. 

A good match was played on Thursday, October 12th, 
between the fourth and first, and the third and second years. 
When the ball was kicked off, there were but ten men present 
on the latter side, and three of these, Taylor, Rogers and 



Fine weather was probably never more desired than on 
Tuesday, the 24th ult., the occasion of our annual sports, 
and many were disappointed by the dark clouds of early 
morning, but towards eleven o’clock, a.m., the clouds began 
to give place to blue sky, and the cheering sunlight soon 
dispelled all doubts. 

MORNING. 

The games commenced in the morning at half-past ten 
o’clock, the first event on the programme being Kicking the 
Foot Ball, which was won by J. McDougall, who made a 
good kick of 155 yards, R. Foster and P. Ross also making 
good kicks of 152 and 15 1 yards respectively. Next fol- 
lowed the Broad Jump, won by Howie, who made n feet 
6 inches, closely followed by J. A. Lane’s n feet 3 inches. 
The third event was Putting the Weight (16 lbs.) ; for this 
there were several entries, and altogether some very good 
throwing, McKenzie putting it 30 feet 5 inches, and E. T. 
Taylor 30 feet. The Running Hop, Step and Jump, which 
came nexc, was won by J. B. Carman, whose best was 41 feet 
8 inches, the next (McDougall’s) being 38 feet 8 inches. 
The Running High Jump was started at 4 feet 6 inches, that 

ancient veteran, C. E. Amaron, being worsted at last. The 
winner was H. O’Heir, who surpassed Amaron’s 5 feet by 
one inch. (. Later — H. O’Heir has been disqualified, not 

being an Undergraduate.) Throwing the Cricket Ball came 
next on the programme, with four entries — Abbot, McDou- 
gall, McKenzie and Jones. The winner (McDougall) threw 
93 yards, and Jones 90. The last of the morning’s pro- 
ceedings was the Standing High Jump, for which there were 
three entries — Howie, Lane and O’Heir. The two last 
stopped at 4 feet 8 inches; Howie, however, kept on, and 
made a ^ood 5 feet, being loudly applauded, in consequence, 
by the boys. 



6 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



AFTERNOON. 

Nothing could have been finer than the state of the weather 
during this latter part of the Sports ; the sky was clear, the 
ground dry, and the campus thronged with the elite of 
Montreal. In fact, we have never seen this gathering pass 
off in a more satisfactory manner. The scene was varied ; 
on all sides a gay crowd surrounded the arena, in which were 

collected a mingled assemblage of judges, reporters, and 
heroes in trunks and tights The first Race, (one mile), was 
won by C. Scriver, in 5 minutes 35J seconds, R. Foster 
second — time 5 minutes 55 seconds Next came the Hurdle 
Race, (150 yards), won by R. B. Rogers in 19 15th seconds, 
closely followed by C. E. Amaron, 20 1-5. The Three-legged 
Race was won by Carman and Carman, second, J. and C. 
Scriver. A. D. Taylor, B A. was successful in the Half Mile, 
time, 2 minutes 27 seconds, Abbott making such a good 
second, that his time was reckoned the same. The Hundred 
Yards (heats) was won by R. B. Rogers, who made the same 
time, 10 2~5th seconds, in both heats. The Wheelbarrow 
Race was probably the most amusing part of the afternoon’s 
proceedings ; nine started, all blindfolded, and the subsequent 
confusion may be more easily imagined than described ; it 
was well won by R. Foster (time of no consequence). The 
Race of the day was the Quarter Mile Championship, Rogers 
N ^wkudng_m^ seconds. The Walking Race also 

partook of an amusing character ; the strenuous efforts of 
McEvenne took him to the front in the first quarter, and he 
nobly retained his advantage, winning in 9 minutes 28 4-5th 
seconds. Taylor and Prendergast came in almost ties ; the 
second prize, however, was awarded to the former. For the 
Steeplechase there were four entries ; the centre of attraction 
was of course the 13 foot ditch, in which two of the competi- 
tors underwent a species of involuntary baptism, much to the 
delight of the omnipresent “ small boy.” It was at last won 
by Lome Campbell, (time unknown). All now adjourned 
to the William Molson Hall, where the prizes were distributed 
to the fortunate disciples of Hercules, by Mrs. Day and 
the proceedings were closed by a few well chosen remarks 
from Dr. Dawson. 



LIST OF PRIZES. 

Kicking the Football. 

Silver Medal, presented by Montreal Football Club. 
Standing Broad Jump. 

1st. — Cuff Buttons. 

2nd. — Pencil Case. 

Putting Weight. 

Marine Glass. 

Rjnntng Hop, Step and Jump. 

Pencil Case. 

Running High Jump. 

1st. — Scarf Pin. 

2nd. — Match Stand. 

Standing High Jump. 

Locket. 

Throwing Cricket Bali. 

Silver Cup. 






Mile Race. 

1st — Gold Medal. 

2nd. — Silver Cup. 

Hurdle Racf. 

1st. — Game Box. 

2nd. — Dressing Case. 

Three-Legged Race. 

Napkin Rings. 

Half-Mile. 

Col. Bond’s Prize. 

One Hundred Yards 

1st. — Writing Case. 

2nd. — Bronze Statuettes. 

Wheelbarrow Race 
Set of Studs. 

Quarter Mile Championship 
Governors’ Cup. 

Walking Race. 

1st — Ring. 

2nd. — Cane* 

Steeple Chase. 

1st. — Ink Stand. 

2nd. — Cigar Case. 

Great praise is due to the Managing Committee, for the 
able manner in which they performed their duties throughout. 
It is seldom that committee-men have so thoroughly disarmed 
that fault-finding phalanx, who, themselves quite useless, are 
nevertheless adepts in picking holes in the achievements of 
others. 



FOOTBALL CHALLENGE. 



As we go to press, we learn that the following intimation 
has been received by Mr. P. Ross : — 

Cambridge, 23rd October, 1876. 

Secretary of McGill Foot Ball Club , 

Dear Sir, 

The Harvard Foot Ball Club hereby challenge the McGill Foot-Ball 
Club to a match game, to be played in Boston, November 15th or 18th ; 
the game to be played under Rugby Union rules, with fifteen men on a 
side. 

(Signed,) W. E. RUSSELL, 

69 Sparks Street. Sec. H. U. F. B. C. 

Although there is little likelihood of the above being ac- 
cepted this fall, yet we hope to see arrangements made for a 
match next spring. 



A CERTAIN Dr. Walker had won reputation from a work on the Greek 
particles, the name applied to the adverbs and conjunctions of that 
language. The word also means grains of dust, so the doctor ordered for 
his epitaph these words, “Here lies Walker’s particles.” 

A WOULD-BE swell, wishing for an excuse to speak to a beautiful 
lady in the street with whom he was unacquainted, drew his nice white 
cambric handkerchief from his pocket as he approached her, and inquired 
if she had not dropped it. The lady glanced at the handkerchief, nodded 
assent, took it, thanked him, and marched on, leaving the exquisite to be 
laughed at by his companions. 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



7 



GRADUATES ASSOCIATION. 



date as near as may be found convenient to the anniversary 
of his birth; to which the friends of the University shall be 



The formation of this society ought to be hailed by all 
our readers with sincere delight, as giving promise of good 
things to come, amongst the first of which is the re-establish- 
ment of the Founder’s Festival, which has been unfortunately 
allowed to drop for four years, the last one being held in the 
fall of 1871. They purpose founding medals, scholarships and- 
prizes in ihe different faculties, which, we are sure, will be 
greatly appreciated by the Undergraduates. The following 
is the substance of a circular issued to Alumni, dated 15th 
July, 1876 : — 

At a meeting ot the Graduates of McGill University, held 
May 15, 1876, to consider the formation of a Graduates 
Society, it was resolved : 

*• That a Committee be appointed to draw up a report 
“ relative to the formation of a Graduates Association for this 
“ University, in which the Committee shall, after consideration 
“ of the various matters to which such Association may 
“ devote its attention, recommend a draft constitution and 
“ set of by-laws, said report to be submitted to a future 
“ meeting, to be called by circular addressed to all Graduates 
“ whose addresses can be obtained.” 



invited. 

2nd. That with a view to giving members the opportunity 
of discussing University topics in a social manner, a dinner 
be held annually on or about the date of the Arts convo- 
cation. 

3rd. That the selection of representative fellows from the 
several Faculties be considered at the annual meeting. 

4th. That public exercises of a character which, at the 
discretion of the Executive, may be varied from time to time, 
form a portion of the proceedings at each annual gathering. 

An adjourned meeting was held June 23rd, for the purpose 
of electing Officers, when the following gentlemen were 
elected : 

President. — R. A. Ramsay, M.A., B.C.L. 

Vice-Presidents.. — J . J. McLaren, B.C.L. ; George Ross, 
M.A., M.D.; Rev. R. Laing, M.A. 

Council.— D. McMaster, B.C.L.; E. Holton, B.C.L.; J. S. 
Hall, B.A., B.C.L.; F. W. Kelly, B.A., Ph.D.; Geo. A. 
Baynes, M.D.; Francis J. Shepherd, M.D. 

Treasurer. — C. H. McLeod, B.A.Sc. 

Secretary. — Wm. Osier, M.D. 



The following were appointed a Committee : Dr. Kelly, 
Mr. McLeod, Mr. Ramsay, Mr. Hall, Dr. Osier, and the 
Chairman, (Mr. McLaren.) 

At a meeting of the Graduates of McGill University, held 
Friday, June 9th, 1876, for the purpose of receiving the 
report of the Committee appointed to consider the organization 
of a Graduates Association. The following Constitution was 
adopted after discussion : — 



PERSONALS. 

’74, W. Molson, M. D., has taken up his* residence in Philip’s Square 
’76, W. Smith, M.D., Cathcart Street. 

’ 76 , We are pleased to hear that R- L. Macdonnell, B.A., M.D., has 
been appointed Assistant Demonstrator of Anatomy, but is at present 
I studying at St. Thomas, London, E. 

’74, W. B. Dawson, B. A., has again returned to ParC, for the winter. 
’74, Mr. Chandler, B.A., is at presen t superintending the Oh^rvfltoEu, 




‘ i. This Society shall be known as the Graduates’ Society 
of McGill University. 

“2. It shall be composed of all Graduates who shall pay 
an annual subscription of one dollar. 

“ 3. The object of the Society shall be to bind the 
Graduates more closely to each other, and to their Alma 
Mater ; and to afford them the means, by united effort, of 
more effectually promoting the interests of the University. 

“ 4. The officers of this Society shall be a President, three 
Vice Presidents, a Secretary, a Treasurer and six Councillors, 
who shall be elected by billot at each annual meeting, and 
shall form the executive of the Society. 

“ 5. The annual meeting shall he held on the evening 
preceding the Arts convocation. 

“ 6. The general meetings of the Society may be called by 
the Secretary on the requisition of the President, or any 
three members of the Executive Committee, or any ten 
members of the Society. 

“ 7. Fifteen shall form a quorum of the Society and five a 
quorum of the Executive Committee. 

“ 8. The constitution cannot be amended except by a two- 
thirds vote at an annual meeting.” 

The usual by-laws and rules of order were also submitted 
and received. 

The Committee, having taken into consideration the work- 
ing of the Society and the most effectual means by which its 
objects might be attained, made the following recommendations 
which were agreed to. 

1st. That under the auspices of the Society, an entertain- 
ment commemorative of its founder be held each year at a 



’74, Mr. J. J. Frothingham, B.A.Sc., is studying Medicine. 



EXCHANGES. 

Received Cornell Rernew, Cornell Era , Harvard Advocate, Dartmouth , 

Central Collegian , Tujts Collegian , College Mercury. 

The Central Collegian , in its opening editorial has a highly, suspicious 
remark about “an almost entire change of students every year ”, which, if 
true, certainly speaks w<dl for the College 

The Cornell Rez'unu contains some very good articles, and altogether is 
one of our best exchanges'. 

In the Cornell Era, two much space is taken up by hits at Freshmen, 
and somewhat pointless anecdotes intended to be funny. 

Tufts contains a fair article on “ Influence of Nature also a political 
editorial, with regard to the latter, of which we, as Canadians, hold to 
Monroe’s principal of “non-intervention”. 

We perfectly agree with the College Mercury , that a paper which is 
printed not to make money, but solely to represent the rights and interests 
of the students, has a right to demand the support of every member of the 
College. 

“ The Cardinal’s torch gleams bright from the river, 

The gentian has marshalled its forces of blue, 

The reeds and the grasses, disdainng their mantle, 

In brown and in yellow have dressed them anew.” 

Is it possible > Has our friend Dartmouth , without relinquishing its 
philosophical platitudes, applied itself to original botanical researches-; 
a new idea,— seeds and grasses have never before been observed perform- 
ing the duty of valets de chambre to the gentian and cardinals torch. W-e 
do not mean this as a reflection on our contemporary itself, but feel com- 
pelled to censure idiocy, even when it manifests itself in the columns of 
so well-conducted a paper. 



8 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



THE FRESHMAN CLASSES. 



These are unusually large this year, and on the whole promise very well 
indeed. We append a list of their names and residences, by way of 
introductiort 



Medical Department. 



Name 

John A. McArthur, - 
George H. Groves, - 
Thos. L. Brown, 

H. B. Small, 

E. A. McGannon, - 
Thos. Gray, 

S. H. Sneider, 

R. R, Teller, 

B. L. Riordam, 

S. D. Holcomb, 

D. G. Inksetter, 

F. W. Pullford, - 

G. C. Brown, 

J. J. Frothingham, - 
W. DeMoulpied, - 
Fred. W. Church, - 
JohnJ. R. Church, - 
R. C. McCorkill, - 

H. E. Poole, 

R . J. Mass, 

W. R. Dulmage, 

J. O. Stewart, 

Geo. Dibble, 

C. G. Glass, 

D. K. Cowley, 

W. McEachran, 

A. Ruttan, 

W. R. Prime, 

F. W. Prime, 

M. McNulty, 

J. M. Lefevre, 

R. Spencer, 

L. D. Mignault, - • 
James Cahalan, 

T. W. Service, 
E-^Smitfi, 

And others whose 



Residence 

■ - Pakenham, Ont. 

Carp, “ 

Ottawa, “ 

. _ ** «< 

Prescott, “ 

Brucefield, 44 

Niagara, ** 

Simcoe, “ 

Port Hope, “ 

Pelham. 

Copetovvn, Ont. 

Windsor, 

Boston, Mass. 

Montreal, Que. 

Nicolet, “ 

Alymer, “ 

West Farnham, Que. 
Wakefield, 44 

Negaunee, Mich., U.S. 
Smith’s Falls, Ont. 

Cazaville, Que. 

St. Stephen, New Brunswick. 
Montreal, Que. 

Ottawa, Ont. 

Montreal, Que. 

Napanee, Ont. 

Knowlton, Que. 

_ << (< 

Iroquois, Ont. 

Brock ville, “ 

Montreal, Que. 

_ u K 

Wiandotte, Mich., U* S. 
Iroquois, Qnt. 

Montreal, Que. 

names we have not been able to ascertain. 



Name • 

J. C. Alguire, 

S. T. Ami, 

D. Currie, 

W. A. McKenzie, - 

F. M. Cole, 

S. W. Hunton, 

R. A. Klock, 

W. R. Robertson, - 
H. O’Heir, 

C. E. Pillsbury, 

A. S. MacPherson, 
J. H. Darey, 

J. U. C. Muir, 

A- L. Gurtin, 

C. W. Scriver, 

S. O. Carriere, 

G. D. Bayne, 

C. Raynes, 

H. J. Bull, 

J. A. Gowanloch, - 
C. E. Black, 

A. Ogilvie, 

S. T. Roberts, 

R. C- Lockhart, - 

T. E. Cunningham, 
H. McIntyre, 

A. York, 

A. Anderson, 

V. Larviere, 

P. T. Lafleur, 

J. A. Craig, 



Arts. 



Residence 

Cornwall, Ont. 

Ottawa, “ 

Crivan, “ 

McDonald’s Comers, Ont. 
Montreal, Que 
Ottawa, Ont. 

Aylmer, Que 
Montreal, “ 

H 4 4 

Augusta, Me. 

Montreal, Que. 

<< 4 4 

*< 44 

Acton Vale, “ 
Hemmingford, “ 

Belle Riviere, 44 
Ottawa, Ont. 

Montreal, Que. 

<< (< 

Chatham, “ 

Granby, “ 

North Georgetown, Que. 
Montreal, Que. 
Du r ham, “ 

Montreal, 44 

Manilla, Ont. 

Metcalf, 44 

Billing’s Bridge, Ont. 
Roxton Falls, Que. 
Montreal, “ 

Fitzroy Harbor, Ont. 



Name. 

R. Foster, 

W. T. Skaifc, 

M. A. Brown, 

H. Robertson, 

W. F. Robertson, 
W. H. Smith, 

— Dudderidge, 

R. Evans, 



Science. 

Residence. 
Montreal, Que. 

<i a 

London, Ont. 
Halifax, N.S. 
Montreal, Que. 
Yarmouth, N.S. 
Lachute, Que. 
Ottawa, Ont. 




ITEMS. 



Students find the new reading room very cold as yet. 

Med. Footing Supper comes off on Friday, 27th of October. 

The Founders’ Festival is to come off on Friday, 10th of November. 

Blanket tossing is getting to be a favorite amusement at the Gymnasium. 

Punch says: — “ Ladies’ hair is generally in inverse proportion to their 
brains.” 



The revivalistic spirit now goes by the appellation of “highly stimu- 
lating evangelical cayenne.” 

A base-ball match is being arranged between 4 • Saints and Sinners,” 
(i. e. Meds. and Theologs. ) 

The Freshmen Classes are unusually large this year. We publish their 
names and residences in this number. 



Class of ’ 79 > Arts and Sciences, is the only one that has appointed its 
officers, as yet. They are Messrs. H. H. Wood and J, F. Scriver. 

Considerable changes have been made in the Arts and Sciences time- 
tables this year, causing much trouble and confusion, but to all appear- 
ances we are settled at last. 



freshman No. I. — 44 1 say, have you noticed that when Prof. 

comes in, he always warms his hands before going to his room ?” 

No. 2. — “ W arms his hands ? Where ?” 

No - *• — “ Why over the re-re-r ^-refrigerator to be sure!” 

The younger students of the various faculties should attend the meetings 
of the University Literary Society, and we promise them much benefit if 
they do so. The notices give the business as 44 re-organization ,” but if 
greater interest is not shown in the Society, the business will soon be 
4 disorganization .” 

— “Is it Mr. Blank I see without his gown ?*' 

B.— “ Yes, sir.” 5 

Prof.— 44 Where is your gown, Mr. B.?” 

B. — “Not here, sir.” 

Prof. — 44 That's obvious .” 



Prof. Armstrong, late Professor of Engineering in McGill, has accepted 
a post ion m Leeds. Yorkshire, E. His place will be supplied by Mr. 
Ernest Hams, who has lately been connected with the Intercolonial 
Railway We understand, however, that Mr. Harris’s engagement is 
merely for the winter. b b 

H , ere . is Mark Twain’s way of saying, “Accidents will happen in even 
the best regulated families: — “ It is believed by many honest and right 
feelmg hough possibly mistaken men— though more or less might 
be weightily said both for and against the proposition— that infelicitous 
conjunctions of cause and effect will eventuate even in fireside circles 

“doSc dombiionT’ « 

A third year wag had some fun in the vacation. While staying at a 
small country place, he noticed a flock of geese in front of the hotel 
Happening to have some crab-apples in his pocket, a luminous idea struck 
him, tying threads to the stalks of four crabs, and knotting the loose ends 
together, he flung the bunch on the ground before the geese. Four of 
them swallowed each a crab, and then the flock in general held an indig 

"popkcdcm" 2 ’ d year retreated into the hotel in an embryonfc 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



S. CARSLEY’S PRICES. 



O- 



(Tents’ Four-ply Linen Cuffs. . . 

Gents’ Four-ply Linen Collars. . . . 

Gents’ White Shirts 

W hite Shirts, very good quality 

Night Shirts ...... . y 


. only 95 cents each 


Single-breast Wool Undershirts 

Double-breast Wool Undershirts 

Long Black Silk Ties 

Dogskin Driving Gloves 

Gents’ Fine Kid Gloves. . . . 


. . . 50 cents per pair 


White Silk Handkerchiefs .... 

White Cashmere Mufflers 

Gents’ Hand-knit Socks 




CH E A IP CARPETS. 

Useful Yard Wide Carpet 

Good Hair Carpet 

Bed room Towels 





CHEAP LOT. 

Large lots Gents’ Silk Scarfs, in black and colors, all at 25 cents each 

S. CARSLEY, 

393 NOTRE DAME ST. 



GENTS’ FURNISHING GOODS. 



Students will find it greatly to their advantage to go to 

FRANK B. STREET, 

St. James St., adjoining Wesleyan Church, 

FOR THEIR 

SHIRTS , COLLARS , CUFFS, 

Underclothing, Scarfs, Gloves, Handkerchiefs, 

UMBRELLAS , CANES, &c. 

lO FFF. CENT. OFF TO STUDENTS ONLY 

Only the best goods kept, and one price charged. 

FRANK B. STREET. 



G. & W. CLARKE, 

oobcllers, Stationers, 



AND 



IMPORTERS OF FANCY GOODS, 

S3S ST. JAKES STE.EEJT, 

(Next door to Ottawa Hotel ) 

Keep constantly in stock a large assortment of 

“ oxe M 



Stationery of all kinds 

0 

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 



WILLIAM SAMUEL, 

367 NOTRE DAME STREET. 



AN EXTENSIVE STOCK OF 



JjENTS’ § UR if OATS, »|aPS &f LOVES 



NOW ON HAND. 



College Trenchers, Arts and Medical Hat Ribbon, and a 
varied and ^ctensive Stock of 

SILK, FELT AND OTHER HATS 

IN THEIR SEASON. 

367 JSTOTIRIE £>T. 



HILL’S LIBRARY, 

666 DORCHESTER STREET. 



Kef ill College f ext fooss, 

NOTE BOOKS, 

AND 

statioitiby ®w A.m mmm 

IN GREAT variety, 

SUITABLE FOR MEDICAL AND OTHER COLLEGE STUDENTS. 
ALSO, ALL THE BOOKS USED IN McEACHRAN'S VETERINARY COLLECE. 

In consequence of declining health, the Proprietor Intends disposing of the 
above Business, and offers the 

Old Stcck, except New Books, cheap for Cash. 



ESTABLISHED 1856. 

ITALIAN WAREHOUSE, 

221 ST. JAMES STREET. 

McGIBBON & BAIRD. 

BRANCH, ESTABLISHED 1876, 

1385 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 

( Corner Mansfield Street.) 

McGIBBON , BAIRD & CO. 

The largest and best assorte<l Stock of Line Groceries in the 
Dominion to choose from at either of the above Establishments. 



FRESH GOODS BY EVERY STEAMER. 



THF. McGILL GAZETTE. 



KEMP & CO., 

(ESTABLISHED 1859.) 

Importers and Manufacturers of 

jHwtis, (SoUavB, lies, gissirnn 

G-LOVES, fee., &c., 

306 Notre Dame Street, 306 

(SECO.VD DOOR EAST OF THE FRENCH CHURCH ,) 

m O X T It E A Li I 

o 

A good stock of CARTWRIGHT & WARNER’S Underclothing 
always on hand. Also, the latest novelties in Scarfs and Cravats are 
being constantly received from the best London Manufactures. 



LORGE& CO., 

FIRST PREMIUM PRACTICAL 

Hatters & Furriers, 

WHOLESALE AND RETAIL, 

No. 21 ST. LAWRENCE STREET. 

MONTREAL. 










ONOGRAMS, t&RESTS AND 




VISITING AND PROFESSIONAL CARDS, 



SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS. 

Dissecting Cases, Pocket Cases, Cupping Cases, &c &c. 

FORCEPS— TOOTH, MIDWIFERY. DRESSING, DISSECTING, t. 

K NIVES— Dressing, Amputating, Pocket, &c. 

SCALPELS IN EBONY AND IVORY. 
JLANCSTb — TOOTH AND ABSCESS, 

Catheters — Gum Elastic , Silver and Electro- Plated, dec., 



GEORGE BISHOP& Co., 

Engravers, 

169 ST. JAMES STREET. 

CANADA TRUSS FACTORY. 
F. GROSS, 

f urgical Instrument §1aker, 

690 CRAIG STREET, 

MONTREAL- 

0 

DISSECTING INSTRUMENTS OK EVERY DESCRIPTION. 

Skates, Razor *, and all kinds of Surgical Instrument*, Ground, Set and 

Repaired. 



Also, Physicians supplied with Bottles, Labels, Scales, Drugs, &c-, at 
the lowest Cash Prices. 



JAMES GOULDEN, 

176 ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STREET, 

MONTREAL. 







REGULAR WEEKLY MEETINGS 

ARE HELD AS USUAL IN THE 

ALEXANDRA R O O M S, 

ON 

FRIDAY EVENINGS, 

To which all Students and Graduates of the University are cordially 
invited. 

Students will always find it to their interest to attend the Meetings 
of the Society. 

F. D, MONK, Rec. Sec . 

THE MONTREAL HERALD PRINTING AND PUBLISHING COMPANY 



