Montreal, (January \C) t 1894 




PACK 

Editorial Comments 185 

A Projected Plan for a University 

Club 185 

Sporting and Dramatic 186 

University Calendar 186 

Contributions 187 

The Sluggard and the Fig 187 

Correspondence 188 

A University Club for McGill... 188 




My First-Class Stand, Poetry 191 

1893-1894, Poetry 191 

My Botany Exam, Poetry 19 1 

Under the Mistletoe Bough 192 

Societies 192 

What ? Where ? When ? 196 

Medical Class Reports 198 

Legal Briefs 198 

Science Jottings 199 



McGill univd 
ARC t v'Lu 



ACC. NO. IM 

r ' u - 7!l c l 




Fine s * 

jTALIAH HflKOOLIH ES 
" AMERICAN GUITARS 

In Oak, Rosewood, Mahogany and 
Cherry. 

“.STEWART,” 

“ BAY STATE,” and 
u DOBSON ” . . . 






0onjo5 



BEST RUSSIAN CUT 

Strings and everything in the 
Musical Line. ....... 



GEORGE J. SHEPPARD, 

2274 and 2276 

St. Catherine Street 



N.B.— Special Discount to Students. 



and al1 kinds of Cameras for Sale, 
llUUAliw Exchange or to Rent. 

PBICE8 : $6 to $75. 

Instruction in Developing and Printing, free to all. 

/^oqtreal Photographic Supply, 

R. F. SMITH, 164 St. James St. 

Sole Agent for Canada Rodinal, Carbutt’s and Harvard Plates; Proscli 
Shutters .and Flash Lamps, Optm us and Periscope Lenses, etc., etc. 



S CIENCE and ART STU- 
DENTS will find the best 
and largest assortment of 

MATHEMATICAL & DRAW- 
ING INSTRUMENTS at 

HARRISON & CO. 




258 St. James Street, 

Near McGill St. 



WM. FOSTER BROWSE, 

<^_Thc McGill BooK Stofe 



2323 ST. CATHERINE! ST., 

MONTREAL. 



Opposite the Bank of 

Montreal Branch. 



Telephone 3641. 



15. DRYSDALE, 

BUILDERS’ SUPPLIES, HARDWARE, MECHANICS’ TOOLS, Etc. 

645 CRAIG STREET, MONTREAL 



Agent for Storrett’s Tools. Telephone 169 . 

E. A. GEBTH, STUD ENTS’ HEADQUAR TERS. 

2235 St. Catherine St., Queen’s Hall Block 
MONTREAL. : : 

of Higu-Class Havana Cigars Whole ia»v ta1l . 

Try G«nh-s Superior Smoking Tobaccos. Kjdazi Fares' Egyptian Cigarettes. 



High Quality.; 



Low Prices. 



THE ROYAL VICTORIA HOSPITAL 

Has purchased its entire and magnificent outfit of 

Surgical Instruments, Microscopes, 
0 Sterilizers, Anatomical Models, 
Electric Batteries, Etc., Etc., 

FROM 

J. M. GHAPMAH, 

2294 St* Catherine Street, Corner of 
McGill College Avenue. 



Bell Telephone, 4390. 



MONTREAL. 



N/VTUR/VL WOOL 
WINTER - 
(JNDLRWLAR 



$1.50 per Suit. 



Just the thing for the cold weather, and 

A BARGAIN 



JXEunroe Bros. 



mi 



2246 St. Catherine Street. 



Althow our 
rates to 
Students are 
LOW 

W. NOTMAN & SON, 



We give 
them the 
BEST 
in 

PORTRAITS 
GROUPS, etc. 



17 Bleurv Street 




TELEPHONES. 



W arehouse Telephones for Connecting the differ- 
ent departments of Colleges, Offices 
and Public Buildings. 



SOLD OUTRIGHT. NO RENTALS. 



Electrical Supplies of every description 

Call? and Examine our Stock of 
Experimental Apparatus. 

T. I V. NESS & CO., 749 C ""s s *-. 

'1 MONTREAL 



^CGlbb FORTNIGHTIsy 

A Fortnightly Journal of Literature, University Thought and Event. 

VOL. II. MONTREAL, JANUARY 19, 1894. No. 8 




3D 





^EDITORIAL BOARD<- 



Ed itor-in-chie /'—Albert G. Nicholls, M.A., Med. *94. 

S. Carmichael, B.A , (Law '95) H. M. Mackay, B.A., (Science ’94) 

E. Edwin Howard, (Arts *95), Sec’y p H ( (Comp. Med. and Vet. 

Miss J. Brown, (Donalda ’94) ’ 1 Science 94.) 

J. A. McPhail, F.A., M.D., Graduates’ Society. 



EBUSINESS BOARDS 

Frank J. Day, (Arts *94), Chairman 
F. A. Hogle, (Law *94;, Secretary 

Miss F. A. Bottbrell, (Donalda ’95) J. C. Cutting, (Com. Med.& Vet. Sc. 95) 
W. F. Angus, (Sc. ’95) C. H. Fox, (Med. *95) 



The McGill Fortnightly is published by the Students of the University 
on the Friday of every second week during the College Session. 

The annual subscription is $1.00, payable strictly in advance. Remittance to 
be made to the Chairman of the Business Board, 58 McTavish Street, Montreal. 
Single copies may be obtained at E. M. Renouf’s, Wm. Drysdale & Co.'s and W. 
Foster Brown’s, Booksellers. Price, 10 cents. 

Address Contributions to Editor-in-Chi«tf, 131 Lusignan Street, Montreal. 

The Editors do not hold themselves responsible for any views expressed in these 
columns by Contributors or Correspondents. 



EDITORIAL COMMENTS, 



A PROJECTED PLAN FOR A UNIVERSITY 
CLUB. 

We publish in another column of the Fortnightly 
a communication, which we have received from Mrs. J. 
Clark Murray, on that interesting topic, “The Univer- 
sity Club.” For some months past Mrs. Murray has 
given a great deal of time and energy to the scheme. 
Like many others who are closely identified with Uni- 
versity work at McGill, she is deeply convinced of the 
necessity for such an institution, for the purpose, not 
only of uniting more intimately the interests of the stu- 
dents, but of bringing McGill more closely into touch 
with the friends of education throughout the country. 
This is a consummation much to be .desired. It is a 
lamentable fact that when her graduates leave the halls 
of McGill, the University loses her hold upon her sons, 
and as time goes on their interest in their Alma Mater 
too often wanes from lack of some bond of union apart 
from the merely sentimental one. We certainly need 
something more tangible and attractive. 

It will be seen from a perusal of the scheme here 
submitted that the idea is rather more ambitious than 
the one already outlined in these pages. The object 
in admitting citizens outside the University to the 
membership of the club is to bring influential and 



wealthy men into touch with University work, and 
make the University a centre of light and usefulness 
to the community at large. 

We think that Mrs. Murray’s estimate of the number 
of students who would join the club is too low. Cer- 
tainly, if the meals were good and the price as low as 
is suggested, 250 to 300 students might be counted on 
On the other hand, it is unlikely that 750 graduates 
would join especially at the beginning. Judging from 
the amount of interest they take in the Fort- 
nightly as well as other College matters, probably 
only half that number would be available. As time 
went on, however, this state of things would improve. 

The dining facilities would without doubt be the 
drawing card at the start. So many students are now 
at the tender mercies of the boarding house keepers, 
whose meat is about as tender as their mercies, that any 
improvement would be hailed with joy. The other 
features of the Club should also be attractive. One 
thing should not be omitted, and that is a room where 
the Debating Society could hold its meetings. This 
society is doing good work for the students and for the 
College, and deserves more publicity than it receives. 
All sections of the University should take part in its 
work, and this would much more likely be the case had 
it a room in the “ University Club.” The billiard room, 
smoking-room, reading-room and Library speak for 
themselves. So far the scheme has hardly progressed 
beyond the stage of debate, and some action should 
soon be taken. 

First we must decide upon what we want, and how 
we want it. There is room for a great deal of discus- 
sion upon this subject, and Mrs. Murray’s suggestion 
is simply placed here in order to give our readers food 
for thought. 

It will readily be understood that the idea is merely 
a tentative one. Nevertheless, we present it as one 
possible solution of the problem. The scheme is placed 
as far as possible on a financial basis. Mrs. Murray has 
quotations for all the requirements even down to the 
spoons, and is firmly of the opinion that the Club would 
be a paying investment. We feel rather doubtful, how- 
ever, if the institution should be run by a joint stock 
company. The Univeisity Gazette was run in this 
way and was run into the ground, owing to lack of in- 
terest on the part of the students, as soon as the bulk 
of the power passed out of their hands. In whatever 
way the Club should be managed, however, it should 
be run on thoroughly business principles, and must be 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



1 86 



made to pay. We commend the whole subject to our 
readers, with the hope that a thorough ventilation of the 
matter will result, and that w r e may before long be en- 
abled to take some definite and concerted action in the 
near future. The scheme is a deserving one. 



SPORTING AND DRAMATIC. 

We feel called upon, owing to one or two recent 
events, to again say a few words about the University 
theatre nights. This subject has already been dealt 
with in these columns, in an article that very clearly 
showed what the position of the Fortnightly is in the 
matter. We have always maintained that by far the 
most satisfactory settlement of the question is to have 
one theatre turn-out engaged in by all the students of 
the University, which would, accordingly, give the pub- 
lic something like a correct conception of the strength 
of McGill when she turns out in force. At present the 
public seems to be waking up to the fact that our Uni- 
versity is a great institution and that the students are 
a very important part of the University. We believe- 
that this impression has been much increased by the 
whole-hearted way in which the college men have 
turned out at the call of their officers on occasions of 
importance during the past few years. Among these 
occasions have been the annual visit to the theatre. 
The theatre managers have learnt the lvalue of secur- 
ing the patronage of the students on these great occa- 
sions, and they, as well as the managers of the theatrical 
companies, now do all they can to get the McGill men 
to patronize them, and make every arrangement possi- 
ble for ;our convenience and pleasure when we go. 
They know that when McGill turns out, every seat in 
the auditorium will be occupied. Now, we are running 
the risk of losing these advantages and of weakening 
rather than increasing the favorable impression now 
forming in the public mind, merely by making our- 
selves too cheap. 

A moment’s reflection will convince one that this is 
a correct statement of the case. Last college year there 
were two “ theatre nights,” and the committees of man- 
agement were so heartily supported that each was a suc- 
cess. Just after the Christmas vacation McGill turned 
out to do honor to Wilson Barrett, and, by the spirit 
with which all joined in, did honor to- our Alma Mater 
as w'ell. It should have ended here, but such was not 
the case. Invitations were received by the students 
asking them to attend the theatres upon other occasions 
Evasive answers were often returned to these invitations 
and certain interested students were allowed to go 
students , though the college banners were not sent The 
advertisements that McGill was coming in force drew 
a great many to the theatres, and these were disap- 
pointed and disgusted at the hoax that had been played 
upon them. Our theatre night last autumn was very 
successfully celebrated. Though, unfortunately, all did 
not listen to the same play, the impression of the 
strength and esprit de corps of the students of McGill 
was greatly enhanced. The unfortunate bungle of a 
few days ago. when it was advertised that the McGill 
boys were going to see Wilson Barrett, has a decided 



tendency in the opposite direction. It is very unfortu- 
nate that such a thing could happen. That McGill 
men honor Mr. Barrett was clearly demonstrated a 
year ago, but that does not mean that we must give 
him an ovation whenever he comes to Montreal. We 
cannot expect that busy students can celebrate more 
than one night annually at the theatre, unless the 
occasion be exceptional indeed. At best these turn-outs 
in the middle of the Session can be only half supported, 
and accordingly should not be undertaken at all. At 
any rate, it is very unwise for any body of students to 
arrange for a theatre night until the different Faculties 
in regular meeting have decided that the occasion 
demands it. 

We think that the best plan would be to have one 
and only one University night annually, in the enjoy- 
ment of which not only the undergraduates but also 
the graduates and friends of the University might par- 
ticipate. This would be promotive of harmony and 
good-fellowship, would foster and strengthen the Uni- 
versity esprit deco’ps, and give the public and friends of 
McGill an annual object-lesson on the importance and 
strength of our Alma Mater. The apparent desire on 
the part of the theatre managers to secure the patronage 
of even a portion of the students on these occasions 
leads us to believe that, if the full powder of McGill 
were exerted to make one night every year memorable 
on account of the enthusiasm with which the College 
men celebrate their annual turn-out to the theatre, con- 
siderable revenue might be derived for some College 
Society, say the Athletic Association, on these occa- 
sions. Let us keep to the text : “ One annual theatre 
night, and that a howling success.” 



umvftK&uv CALENDAR. 

We would call the attention of our readers to a 
column in another part of this number, under the 
heading, “What? Where? When?” which contains 
notices of the more important meetings to be held by 
the various societies of McGill during the next fort- 
night. The Editors have decided to set apart a column 
of the paper in which all meetings of special interest to 
all or to any considerable portion of the students of the 
University may be duly announced. In doing this 
we believe that we are supplying a long-felt want. 
The University societies and clubs have long needed 
some means by which the regular meetings might be 
made known to the students at large, but especially has 
the lack been felt when some extraordinary meeting, 
match or other event had to be announced. We meet 
the difficulty, as other college papers have done, by 
opening a column for such items, thus affording a 
means by which any college gathering or event may 
be officially announced. 

In order that the column may fulfill the purpose for 
wueli it is set apart, the officers— especially the 
secretaries— of the college societies must avail them- 
selves of the opportunity thus afforded, and see that all 
important events are duly announced therein. 

r° assure insertion, the notices must be in the hands 
of the Editors not later than 7.30 p.m., on the Saturday 
preceding the issue of the paper. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



CONTRIBUTIONS. 



THE INFLUENCE OF SCIENCE. 

This nineteenth century was called the age of pro- 
gress before its claims to that appellation had accumu- 
lated to their present extent ; before our streets were 
lighted even with gas; before the most expeditious rule 
of travelling had exceeded a dozen miles an hour; be- 
fore it was found practicable to cross the Atlantic in 
six days, and when steam-voyages were deemed chimer- 
ical ; before the application of the arts in manufactures 
had set to the power loom its wholesale work ; before 
observation of the heavenly bodies had made us 
acquainted with several members of our solar system ; 
before geology had unfolded the records of the earth’s 
past ages ; before it was found practicable to multiply 
literary works in such a manner as to bring our great 
authors within the reach of the mass of the people in 
the cheapest form ; before engraving had multiplied 
pictorial representations, so that they were sent out by 
scores of thousands instead of by hundreds, and that at 
a twentieth part of their former price ; before the know- 
ledge of the human mind had been rendered so popular 
as phrenology — whether it be true or false in all its 
details — has now rendered metaphysical phenomena ; 
before the art of ratiocination had been rendered so sys- 
tematic, powerful and lucid, as it has by the work of 
John Stuart Mill, whose “ Logic” hasdone in the pre- 
sent age what Bacon did in his for the advancement of 
learning ; before all this, the appellation of the age of 
progress was rightfully applied to the present* century ; 
and now, with all these means so accumulated, when 
we are so much in advance, it cannot but be admitted 
that it is a description which essentially belongs to our 
time. 

The application of science to the useful arts is that 
by which the pages of the future historians of these 
times will be long characterized. This cannot be with- 
out its results— upon the great mass of society, 
although, I grant, not in proportion with the power of 
such agencies. The light of science by no means finds 
its way so easily to the cottage as to the palace — the 
influences of discovery are often long in extending 
themselves over the broad surface of society — long in 
penetrating the depths of some of its ravines ; the light 
is often gleaming on the mountain-top, while the vales 
below are in mists and darkness ; still, if we take the 
broad and striking features now characterizing the 
great mass of the people, and compare them with what 
they were a few generations back, we cannot but per 
ceive that there is a difference, and a most important 
one : a difference which associates itself, not with the 
exertions ot benevolence in high stations, not with the 
charity put forth by one class for the aid of another, 
not with the efforts of legislation to raise the condition 
of those whose well-being should be the object of 
legislation ; but which connects itself distinctly and 
exclusively with the progress of science, and which 
should lead us to regard science as one of those great 
means by which the life of man is rendered more glad, 



187 



more productive of benefit to himself and of good 
to others than it has hitherto been in this world of ours. 

Science is the friend of man — raising and dignifying 
man, and qualifying him more and more for the full 
possession of his rights, the exercise of his powers, and 
the accomplishment of whatever is good and great in 
this world ; and of all that its various means and appli- 
ances are capable of rendering. 

H.M. 



THE SLUGGARD AND THE FIG. 

AN ALGERINE LEGEND : ALPHONSE DAUDET. 

In the indolent and voluptuous little town of Blidah, 
some years before the French invasion, lived a brave 
Moor, who, after the name of his father, was called 
Sidi Lakdar, but to whom the townspeople had given 
the nickname of the Sluggard. 

You must know that the Moors of Algiers are the 
most indolent men in the world, those of Blidah above 
all ; doubtless on account of the perfume of oranges 
and sweet lemons in which the town is steeped. But 
in the matter of idleness and supineness, among all the 
men of Blidah none could hold a candle to Sidi 
Lakdar. That worthy gentleman had raised his vice 
to the dignity of a profession. Others were em- 
broiderers, shop-keepers, spice merchants ; as for Sidi 
Lakdar, he was a Sluggard. 

On the death of his father he had inherited a little 
garden in the outskirts of the town, with low white 
walls falling into ruin, and a door that wouldn’t shut, 
some fig and banana trees, and two or three living 
springs sparkling amidst the grass. Here he passed 
his life, stretched at full length, silent and motionless, 
his beard full of red ants. When he grew hungry he 
stretched out his arm and picked up a fig or a banana 
crushed upon the turf beside him ; had he to raise 
himself and pick the fruit upon the branch he would 
soon have died of hunger. Moreover, in his garden the 
figs were rotting as they lay, and every tree was sifted 
by the little birds. 

This unbridled sluggardliness had made Lakdar 
very popular in his country. He was looked up to 
like a saint ; when passing by his little place the ladies 
of the town, going out to eat sweetmeats at the church- 
yard, would rein their mules to a walking pace and 
speak in low tones behind their white masks. The 
men bent reverently as they passed, and every day, at 
close of school, might be seen upon the walls of the 
garden a whole crowd of gamins in striped silk jackets 
and red caps, who came to disturb, if possible, that 
admirable Sluggard, calling Lakdar by name, laughing, 
jeering, and pelting him with orange peel. 

Labor lost ! The Sluggard never stirred. From time 
to time one might hear him shout from amongst the 
weeds : “ Take care ! Look out now, if I get up— P* 
But he never did get up. 

Now. it happened that one of these little rogues, 
from playing tficks in this fashion upon the Sluggard, 
was in some way touched by grace, and taken with a 
sudden liking for horizontal life ; he declared to his 



1 88 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



father one morning that he wasn’t going to school any 
more, but wished to become a Sluggard. 

“ A Sluggard ! — you ! ’ 7 said the father, an honest 
turner of pipe-stems, busy as a bee, and always seated 
at his lathe before cock-crowing. “You : a Sluggard ! 
What a fancy !” 

“Yes, father; I wish to become a Sluggard 

like Sidi Lakdar 77 

“ By no means, my boy. You will be a turner 
like your father, or a registrar at the Court of the 
Cadi like your uncle Ali, but never will I make a 
Sluggard of you... Come, get to school, or I will break 
this nice new cheny switch across your back... Away, 
you little donkey !” 

In the face of the switch the child no longer held 
out, and pretended to be convinced : but instead of 
going to school he entered a Moorish bazaar, threw him- 
self down upon a soft rug between two piles of Smyrna 
carpets, and stayed there the whole day stretched upon 
his back, lazily watching the Moorish lanterns, the 
blue cloth purses, the golden breast-plates glittering in 
the sun ; and breathing the penetrating odor of flagons 
of essence of rose and of warm cloaks of fine wool. It 
was here, henceforth, that he spent all his school 
hours. 

After some days the father got wind of the affair ; 
but in vain did he pray, and coax, and curse the name 
of Allah, and wear out all the cherry swilches in his 
shop upon the back of the little fellow ; it availed 
nothing. The child never ceased to repeat : “ I want to 
be a Sluggard! I want to be a Sluggard !”— and 
every day found him stretched in his corner again. 
Tired of the contest, and after having consulted with 
Ali, the clerk, the father took a new tack. 

Listen, said he to his son, “ Since you desire 
to be a Sluggard with your whole heart, I am going 
to take you to Lakdar . He will examine you, and if 
you are really fit for his trade, I will beg him to take 
you into his service as an apprentice.” 

“ That just suits me,” answered the boy. And no 
later than the morrow the two of them, newly barbered 
and perfumed with vervain, set out to find the Sluggard 
in his garden. 

The door was always open. Our friends entered 
without knocking, but as the weeds were very thick 
and high they had some difficulty to discover the 
master of the place. At last they caught sight of him 
lying under a fig-tree at the bottom of the garden, a 
bundle of yellow rags which greeted them with a 
grunt. 

“ Peace be unto thee, Sidi Lakdar,’ 7 said the father, 
bowing, with his hand upon his heart. “ Behold my 
son, who is absolutely resolved to become a Sluggard. 

I have brought him to you, that you may examine 
him, and see if he has a call. In that case I beg you 
to take him with you as an apprentice. I will pay 
whatever is necessary. 77 

Sidi Lakdar, without answering, made a sign for 
them to sit down beside him upon th^ grass. The 
father seated himself, the son flung himself down at 
full length, which was already a very good sign. Then 
all three looked at each other in silence. 



It was high noon ; the day was warm and sunny ; 
the little close was full of drowsy air. One could hear 
only the crackling of the wild broom as its shells burst 
in the sun, the springs gurgling through the grass, 
and the soft rustling of the birds as they flitted from 
bough to bough with the sound of the opening and 
shutting of fans. Prom time to time, a fig, overripe, 
tumbled downward from branch to branch. Then Sidi 
Lakdar would reach out his hand with an air of fatigue, 
and carry the fruit to his mouth. But the child did 
not take even that trouble. The choicest figs fell 
about him without so much as his turning his head. 
The master, out of the corner of his eye, was watching 
this spendid indolence, but he refrained from breathing 
a word. 

One hour, — two hours, — passed thus... The pipe-stem 
turner was beginning to find the interview a trifle long. 
However, he dared not say anything, but remained 
there, motionless, his eyes fixed, his legs crossed, over- 
come himself by the atmosphere of laziness which 
floated on the heat of the close with a vague odor of 
bananas and baked oranges. All at once a great fig 
fell from the tree and flattened itself upon the cheek of 
the boy. A fine fig, by Allah ! Rosy, mellow, and as 
sweet as honey ! To get it into his mouth the boy had 
but to tip it with his finger ; but he found even that 
too fatiguing, and lay thus, without stirring, the fruit 
embalming his cheek. 

At last the temptation became too strong ; he glanced 
towards his father and called to him in a doleful voice : 

" Papa, ’ said he, “papa, put it into my mouth !’ 7 

At these words, Sidi Lakdar, who was taking a fig 
in his hand, threw it far away, and addressing the 
father angrily : 

And this is the child whom you have just offered 
me for an apprentice ! Surely he is my master. It is 
he who should give me lessons !” 

Then falling upon his knees, with his face to the 
ground, before the still reclining child : 

“I salute thee, 77 he said, “O father of Sluggardli- 
ness ! 77 ... 

Cambridge. R. MACDOUGALL- 



CORRESPONDENCE. 



A UNIVERSITY CLUB FOR McGILL- 

To the Editor , 

Dear Sir, 

I am pleased to observe that, through your columns, 
you are drawing the attention of the students towards the 
consideration of some plan by which the various Facul- 
ties may see more of each other and know each other 
better. It is in no spirit of criticism, but in emphatic 
support of such indications, that I venture to submit to 
you what I may call an extension and amplification 
of the excellent idea started by you. My suggestion 
takes the shape of an out-and-out University Club, and 
so ar from the idea being a new one in connection with 
Universities, there is no University out of Canada that 
dares attempt to live without one. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



189 



1. The Institution shall be called 4 The McGill Uni- 
versity Club.” 

2. The aims of the Club shall be : — 

(a) Tj promote an enthusiastic individual interest 
in the University and in its work. 

(0 To deepen and strengthen the bonds which 
bind to their Alma Mater her sons and 
daughters throughout the Dominion. 

( c ) To induce social intercourse among the stu- 

dents, the various Faculties, members of the 
University, and friends of education gen- 
erally. 

( d ) To provide a dignified rcndez-vous ) where the 

interests of the University may be informally 
promoted ; where Graduates revisiting their 
Alma Mater may be welcomed and enter- 
tained ; and where eminent persons from 
abroad, visiting Montreal, may be invited 
and entertained by the University. 

(>) To supply dining facilities for students and 
members. 

3. The annual subscription to the Club shall be : — 
(a) For undergraduates, partial and occasional 



students $ 5 00 

(b) For graduates - 10 00 

(c) For citizens 25 00 



N.B. — These subscriptions to be due November 15 in 
each year, all the Faculties having met by that date. 

4. A member may introduce a friend to breakfast, 
lunch, dinner or supper in the Club House at his or her 
expense, provided the name of such friend be inscribed 
in a book kept for the purpose. No other person shall 
be admitted to the Club except to view the House, and 
then only when accompanied by a member and intro- 
duced to the Secretary. 

5. The membership of the Club shall include : — 

(a) Members of the University. 

(b) Ladies and Gentlemen interested in University 

work, though not necessarily members of the 
University. 

(c) Members of other University Clubs, and dis- 

tinguished persons whom the Club may 
desire so to honor. 

6. The conduct of members while in the Club House 
shall be in harmony with the aims of the Club and with 
the prestige of the University. 

7. The Club House shall be open to members from 
7 a.m. in summer and 8 a m. in winter, and shall 
close at up. m. except on Sundays, when the hour 
shall be 9 p.m. After these hours, no member shall 
remain in the House except on evenings of special 
entertainment, or by special arrangement with the 
Secretary. 

8. The hours for meals shall be as follows 

Breakfast 8 to 10. 

Lunch 1 to 3. 

Dinner 6 to 7.30. 

Supper 9 to 11 {lila carte). 

Sunday hours 

Breakfast 8 to 10. 

Dinner 1 to 2. 



Supper 6 to 7. 

No meals shall in any circumstances be served after 7 
p.m. on Sundays, nor after the stipulated 
hours on week days, except in such emer- 
gencies as shall be recognized by the Secre- 
tary. 

Special dinners and suppers, and the annual entertain- 
ments of the respective Faculties, scholastic 
years, etc., may be held by special arrange- 
ment with the Secretary. 

9. Before leaving the Club House, members shall pay 
the bills they have incurred for themselves or friends. 

10. Smoking shall be permitted only in the rooms 
set apart for the purpose. 

11. Cigars, ginger ales, soda waters, Apollinaris sup- 
plied at regular prices. Light clarets, ales and porters, 
if desired, may also be supplied at regular prices. 

DUTIES OF THE RESPECTIVE OFFICERS. 

The Club should be governed by a small Com- 
mittee, elected annually. The Committee should 
represent the varied interests of the University, and 
should also represent the city. The Committee should 
appoint a Secretary, whose office should be permanent, 
and who should present to the Committee weekly 
statements of affairs. 

The Secretary shall be manager and superintendent 
of the entire establishment ; 

Shall conduct the official correspondence of the 
Club and shall keep the accounts ; 

Shall have control of the stores in the House ; 

Shall be responsible that all goods ordered are 
checked and correctly charged ; 

Shall examine, pass, and pay all tradesmen’s bills ; 
Shall have full control of the servants of the esta- 
blishment. 

The Housekeeper shall govern the female servants ; 
Shall be responsible for the cleaning of the House ; 
Shall have the care of the House Linen, the ladies’ 
parlors and lavatories, and the laundry. 

The Steward shall govern the men servants ; 

Shall have charge of the dining-rooms, the plate, 
china, glass and cutlery ; 

Shall check tradesmen’s supplies ; 

Shall check supplies to the kitchen ; 

Shall draw up bills of fare daily ; 

Shall cast up bills incurred by members daily, and 
shall collect the same ; 

Shall supply to the Secretary a daily statement of 
the same. 

The Cook shall have the im mediate direction of the 
kitchen and assistants ; 

Shall submit advance bills of fare daily to the 
Steward ; 

Shall submit advance daily estimate of supplies 
required for the kitchen. 

The Hall Porter shall be responsible for the general 
duties of the Entrance Hall ; 

Shall take charge of letters addressed to members, 
and of letters written by members to be dropped 
into the Club Box ; 

Shall have charge of cloak-rooms, gentlemen’s 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



190 



lavatories, opeu fires, reading-rooms, papers and 
magazines, writing materials, etc., and such 
duties as the Secretary shall direct. 

Boots shall be responsible for the snow-clearing, light- 
ing of fires, ashes, wood, wood-cutting, knife- 
cleaning, the carrying of fuel to the fires, the 
cleaning of windows, and other assistance re- 
quired by the house-keeper and steward. 
General Rules for servants : 

All servants of the house shall be subject directly 
to the heads of their respective departments, and 
indirectly to the Secretary. 

No servant shall leave the house on the personal 
errands of members. 

No servant shall leave the house without special 
permission of his chief. 

No servant shall accept any present from a mem- 
ber of the Club, or from any tradesman supply- 
ing or desiring to supply the house. 

No visitors shall be received in the house. 

No linen of any kind shall be washed in the house 
by the servants. 

REQUIREMENTS IN ACCOMMODATION OF PROPOSED 
CLUB HOUSE. 

Office ; reception room ; cloak room ; reading room ; 
smoke room ; billiard room ; general dining room ; 
ladies’ dining room ; guests\dining room ; lavatory ; 
ladies* parlor; t ladies’ lavatory; housekeeper’s quar- 
tors; steward’s quarters ; kitchen ; store rooms. 

locality and appointments. 

For the purposes of such a Club the locality is of the 
utmost importance. No second rate house or second 
rate situation ought, for a moment, to be entertained. 
The house need not be within the University grounds, 
but it should be within moderate distance. Sherbrooke 
Street is the only locality which, in my opinion, could 
be considered. I have examined, with more or less care, 
several important properties, either of which might 
suit admirably. The house itself, its appointments, its 
service, should be of the highest order. The meals, if 
the dining-hall department be added, may be simple, 
but they must be deliciously cooked and beautifully 
served. A Bill of Fare for breakfast, of, say, fish, 
bacon, steaks, sausages, etc. ; for lunch, of soups, cold 
meats, rolls, coffee and fruit ; for dinner, of soup, fish, 
joints, pudding and dessert, with extras on special occa- 
sions, might suffice. 

I am in possession of estimates from practical experts 
in catering, offering to supply meals of this kind, 
served in accordance with the approval of any reason- 
able committee, at the rate of five tickets for one dollar. 
From what I have seen of our students and of their life 
in Montreal, I am surprised that they have been able so 
well to carry on their mental and physical work under 
the existing boarding-house arrangement. Men and 
women who work with their brains are dainty in appe- 
tite. They have in College a short hour for mid-day 
meals. They are compelled to rush amongst a closely- 
packed crowd of hurrying business people, and partake 
of the best they can stumble upon in a given time. 



Taking last year as an average guide, the proportion 
of students who came into Montreal to McGill, and who 
were at the mercy of boarding houses, was as follows 



In Arts x 35 

In Medicine 2 3 & 

In Science 102 

In Law • • • *9 

In Veterinary College. 49 

In the Donalda Department . . 27 

In the Theological Colleges. . . 65 

Total 633 

STATEMENT OF FURNITURE REQUIRED. 

For office $50 

Reception room 50 

*Cloak room 20 

Reading room 50 

Smoke room 30 

Billiard room 250 

Diningroom 150 

Guests’ diningroom 75 

Two lavatories 30 

Ladies’ dining room 50 

Ladies’ parlor . . . . 50 

Housekeeper’s room 50 

Steward’s room 50 

Furniture of kitchen and range. . . 300 

Carpets and rugs 1,000 

Sundries 209 



$2364 

REQUIREMENTS IN SILVER AND CUTLERY ON THE 
BASIS OF IOO DAILY. 



Tea-spoons, 8 dozen #40 00 

Dessert “ 8 Cl 70 00 

Table “ 8 “ 88 00 

Table forks, 8 “ 88 00 

Dessert “ 8 iC 70 00 

Table knives, 8 “ 62 00 

Desert “ 8 « 42 00 

Carvers, 3 pairs 7 50 

Game carvers, 3 “ 7 

Sundries 50 00 

Fish knives and forks 112 00 

Small silver tea setts (3) 72 00 

Breakfast cruets *16 00 



Pepper and salt shakers (48) 
Fruit knives and forks 



$940 00 

REQUIREMENTS IN LINEN. 



Fifty table cloths , . 

Four hundred napkins 

Two hundred small d’oyleys^^^. 
Kitchen and pantry towelling 
Lavatory and house “ 


$300 

20 

IO 

30 

30 








1390 


REQUIREMENETS 


IN 


CHINA. 


Soup plates 




$ 10 


Dessert " , t 




<1 


Dinner “ t 




<t 


Io 


Cheese “ , 




(C 


10 


Tea “ 




(C 


10 


Tea cups and saucers 
Tumblers , . .. T 




<c 

u 


io 

IO 

0 


Glass preserves 




« 


0 

8 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



191 



Ice plates 




10 


Finger bowls 




20 


Dessert fruits 




20 


Cover dishes 


4 “ 


24 


Jugs 




5 


Bread plates 




10 


Dessert centres 




100 


Large supos . . 




18 


Small “ 




18 


Tea pots 




5 

$306 



the probable cost. 

A house of proper tone and situation could not be 
procured for less than $60,000, or its equivalent in 
annual rent. The furniture and appointments as above 
make a total of $4,000. A dining hall might be added 
for $20,000. This makes an outlay of $84,000, which 
at 5 p. c. would make the annual rent $4,200, with an 
additional allowance for light, heat, water and taxes. 
The dining-hall department ought to support itself 
with 100 customers daily, and with more than that it 
ought to commence to bring in a comfortable revenue. 
Perhaps the better w^ would be to hire it out to an 
expert, till the other departments were in good work- 
ing order. 

On the credit side we might, with all modesty, count 
upon 100 out of the 633 who would become members 
at $5 each ; and from the roll of 3,000 graduates, with 
a similar modesty, we might set down 25 p. c. at $10 
each. 

This would give us something like the following : — 

GENERAL STATEMENT. 



CR. 

100 Undergraduates 
(out of 633-700) 

at $5 00 {500 00 

750 Graduates (out 
of 3,000) at $10.. 7,500 00 

100 Citizens at $25., 2,500 00 



Annual income.. $10,500 00 



Dr. 

Annual rent of 
house and fur- 
nishings $4,200 00 

Light, heat, water, 

taxes 600 00 



Total $4,800 00 



It is difficult to estimate the probable members from 
the City. St. James Club has 700, and the Metropoli- 
tan nearly as many. Most men join clubs, not because 
of unattractive homes, or from a pieference for club- 
life, but because they find it PAYS. Their club fees 
are largely a business investment. Their Board of 
Trade dinners are the same. 

This element of paying is what McGill is hungering 
and thirsting for. With all her buildings and all her 
endowments, she is a starving University. What she 
is most starving for cannot be purchased by endow- 
ments or coaxed by buildings. It is a spirit, an atmo- 
sphere, an academic life, a University enthusiasm which 
no money can buy. 

Some such scheme as the above fulfils to other Uni- 
versities this important requirement. 



MARGARET POLSON MURRAY. 

1 1 1 Mackay St. 



MY FIRST CLASS STAND. 

Young friends, please remember I’m out of your sphere, 

And be most reverential whene’er I appear. 

With deference greet me— hats off, I demand — 

I’m the fellow who’s taken a first-class stand. 

The Faculty fell every man on the floor 

When they heard the results, and they said : u Evermore 

We may spare for the future our stern reprimand, 

For M ’s taken a first class stand.” 

My mamma fainted back in a swoon in her chair, 

And, slowly reviving, exclaimed, “ Look — look there,” 

As the newspaper columns were eagerly scann’d, 

“ Dear Willie has taken a first-class stand.’* 

My father, with gracious and dignified air, 

Says : “ William, now heaven has answer’d my pray’r ; 

Not in vain, my dear boy, was your youthful hide tann’d, 

For at last you have taken a first-class stand.” 

I returned to the city, elated with pride. 

My friends came to meet me from far and from wide ; 

And my classmates all say, as they give me a hand, 

“ Why, Billy, you’ve taken a first class stand !” 

And what shall my fellow-men think of my fame ? 

And how shall prosterity look on my name ? 

For the glory is rolled o’er each wondering land 
Of the man who has taken a first-class stand. 

They should robe him, enthrone him, and crown him with gold, 
Enroll him, extol him, with titles untold, 

And conduct him around with a big brass baud, 

The man who has taken a first-class stand. 

The list of results shall be framed to adorn 

My ancestral mansion , that scholars unborn 

May proclaim, as they point to that trophy so grand, 

“ Our grandsire once took a first class stand.” 



CAP’N. GOUN. 



1893-1894. 

AJsigh and a tear for the grey old year 
That is over the river ferried ; 

For the loves which we lost in his early frost, 

And the graves where our dead lie buried ; 

For the hopes and the prayers which were ours and theirs, 
And the hearts which were warm and willing, 

When we raised the shout, as the bells rang out. 

And the laugh in our ears was thrilling. 

But a song and a cheer for the green young year — 

For the lives and the loves yet left us ; 

They are tender and true, both for me and for you, 

Though of many hath fate bereft us, 

So a bright, brave smile for the new, the while, 

And away with the sense of sorrow ; 

For the tear shall be dried, and our joy shall abide, 

With the dawn of the golden morrow. 

H.M. 



MY BOTANY EXAM. 

I went up to the Botany exam., 

And I wrote all about the Phenogam, 
The Bryophyte, and the Angiosperm : 
Enough to make the strongest squirm. 
Concerning the Sclerenchyma tissue, 

I at last come to a doubtful issue ; 

I wrote down all that I ever kuew 



192 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



About how the Myxomycetes grew. 

When asked to explain transpiration, 

I gazed around in desperation, 

And the Pteridophytes’ life history 
Was yet to me an unknown mystery. 

I was then asked to name a specimen, 

A species of flowering Acrogen, 

The like of which I ne’er had seen before, 
And hope that I ne’er shall see any more. 
Thus ended this Botany exam., 

For which I had made a fearful cram : 

I hoped ‘at least for a second class, 

But found I had barely got a pass. 

MACCUS. 



UNDER THE MISTLETOE BOUGH. 

Will nobody come to the mistletoe bough ? 

I’ve waited so long that I fear 
I shan’t have a kiss, and if so I shall miss 
My chance to be married this year ; 

They say that old customs are quite out of date, 

That our young men all wiser grow now ; 

But how foolish they look when we bring them to book 
Under the mistletoe bough. 

The Druids of old, we’re in history told, 

Prized nothing so highly as this ; 

So ’tis likely, perhaps, that these clever old chaps 
Hung it up for the sake of a kiss ; 

At least it’s quite clear that at this time of year 
’Tis a fault that we all should allow ; 

And our mothers can’t blame, for they kll did the same. 
Under the mistletoe bough. 

H. M. 



SOCIETIES. 



GLEE AND BANJO CLUBS. 

The concert given in the Windsor Hall on the 9 
inst. by the Glee and Banjo Clubs was a decided su 
cess in every way, excepting one, and that is the su 
port given by the students. There can be no esprit 
corps in McGill, when out of a thousand students b 
seventy-three by actual count can attend a conce 
given by their fellow-students. The Glee and Ban 
Clubs intended devoting, in the future, all su 
plus money to some college object, yet they are wit 
out the support they desire even in this. T1 
programme consisted of fifteen selections, all of whic 
were carefully rendered, special attention being draw 
to the “Plantation Frolic” and Cupid’s Dream Wal 
by the Banjo Club, Schneider’s Band and a McGi 
song by the Glee Club. Mr. Donald Guthrie was or 
of the forwards, and distinguished himself in h 
selected readings. Mr. Tetreau, to whom is due mud 
of the success of the Glee Club, sang “ The Little Pu 
itan Maiden” in a splendid manner, while Mr. Pa 
ker with his banjo brought down the house in hi 
variations of “Nellie Gray” and “Old Black Joe 
The Glee and Banjo Clubs have every reason to b 
proud of their season’s work, for they have shewn t 
the citizens of Ottawa and Montreal that there is firsl 
class musical talent in McGill which has been so Ion 
latent. The following universities are in correspor 



deuce with the secretary with regard to arranging joint 
concerts: University of Vermont, Dartmouth College, 

Tufts College, Boston, and Amherst, also from St. 
John, N.B., and Halifax, N.S., came very tempting 
offers for the boys to appear in these places at the 
close of the session in April. 

The following is a complete list of members and 
the programme of Tuesday, January 9th : — 



GLEE CLUB. 

Leader, MR. W. D. LAMBLY. 



NORS. 

W. D. Lambly, Med. ’95. 

R. O. Ross, Med. ’96. 

R. de L • Harwood, Med. ’95. 

FIRST BASS. 

A. T. Bazin, Med- ’94. 

F. W. Harvey, Arts ’94. 

M. C. Hopkins, Arts ’95. 



SECOND TENORS. 

T. Tetreau, Med. ’96. 

F. Graham, Arts ’94. 

O. S. Finnie, Science ’97. 

SECOND BASS. 

F. M. Fry, Med. ’94, 

W. R. Askwith, Science ’95, 
E. J. Williams, Med. '97. 



DAINJU UlyUfl. 

Leader, Mr. R. B. McDUNNOUGH. 

FIRST BANDOLAS. SECOND BANDOLAS. 

R. B. McDunnough, Sc. ’95. F. Lambert, Science ’94. 
H. D. Herdt, B.A.Sc. 

G. A. Walkem, Science ’96. 

J. H- Parker, Soloist. 

MANDOLIN. 

G. W. Oliver, Dent. ’94. 

J. K. Kennedy, Arts ’96. 



W. F. Carter, Science, ’95. 



BANJOS. 

J. K. Larmonth, Science ’94. 
S. Graham, Arts ’96. 

O. L. Bickford, Science ’97. 

GUITARS. 

R. O’Reilly, Med. ’97, 

R. A. Gunn, Science ’94. 

Reader, MR. DONALD GUTHRIE, B.A. 

Secretary and Business Manager, ROBERT A. GUNN. 





PROGRAMME. 






Part I. 




1. OVERTURE 




Concone 




Glee and Banjo Clubs. 


2. CHORUS ... 


‘ £ The Wandering Singer’s Patrol,” 






Glee Club. 




3. SELECTION, 




. Parker 




Banjo Club. 


4. SOLO 


“The Little Puritan Maiden.”. . 






Mr. Tetreau. 


5- SOLO «< 


Nellie Gray,” Original variations. 






John H. Parker. 




6. READING .. 








Mr. Donald Guthrie, B.A, 




7. CHORUS.... 








Glee Club. 




Part II. 




1. SELECTION 




• Parker 




Banjo Club. 


2. QUARTETTE. The old Home down on the Farm, 


"..Arr. 


Messrs. Lambly, Tetreau, Harwood and Fry 


Maty 


3- TRIO 


. . “ Medley from ‘ Wang ’ ” 


. Parker 


Messrs. Oliver, McDunnough, O’Reilly. 



McGill fortnightly. 



193 



4- CHORUS “ Schneider’s Band,” Harvard Songs 

Glee Club. 

5. SOLO. Old Black Joe,” Original variations- 

John H. Parker. 

6. READING “Selected,” 

Mr. Donald Guthrie. B.A. 

7. MARCH ** Ottawa,” Parker 

Banjo Club. 

8- SELECTION “Jingle Bells,” 

Glee Club. College Songs 

God Save the Queen. 

DELTA SIGMA SOCIETY. 

A meeting of this Society was held on the afternoon 
of January the eleventh, for the purpose of making a 
statement and slight explanation of business to be 
brought up and decided upon at the first regular 
meeting. 

The committee hope in a short time to be in a 
position to announce the programme which the 
Alumnae Society together with the Delta Sigma 
intend carrying out at the proposed joint meeting, and 
to which all are looking forward with pleasurable 
anticipation. 

For the first time we meet our graduate Sisters in 
this way, and our earnest hope is that this friendly 
meeting under our Alma Mater, will be conducive to 
a closer bond of union and sympathy between these 
two societies, that ought to have so much in common. 

Y. M. C. A. 

The 10th Annual Meeting of the Young Men’s Chris- 
tian Association of McGill University took place Satur- 
day evening, January 13th, in the Arts Building. 

A good attendance was present and great interest 
manifested. 

President Frank J. Day occupied the chair in his own 
happy and business-like manner. 

After devotional exercises and reading of minutes, 
the President read his annual report as follows : 

To the Members of the Association : — 

In presenting our report of theVork of the past year, 
we feel that we have every reason to be thankful for 
the way our God has led us and for the measure of 
success attending our feeble efforts to advance the in 
terests of Christ’s Kingdom among the Students of Mc- 
Gill. We have special cause for thankfulness that the 
ranks of the Executive Committee remain unbroken, 
the Association not having to fill any vacancies through 
death or removal from college. 

After the election of your Committee last session, 'the 
sub committees and their chairmen were chosen, and 
with two exceptions the chairmen have remained un- 
changed. 

The Provincial Convention was held in this city last 
January, our association being represented by duly 
appointed delegates. It was during the sessions of this 
convention that a movement was set on foot of the most 
vital importance to the Association. The officers had 
several conferences with Secretary J. R. Mott, of the 
International Committee, the position of our Associa- 
tion was placed so plainly before us that we all felt 



that something must be done at once to make our work 
more efficient. The thought uppermost at this time was 
that of pushing the Building scheme, but in the course 
of the conference it was impressed upon us all that the 
first step toward this was the securing of a General Sec- 
retary. The outcome of this was that Mr. Percy C. 
Leslie, of 2nd year Medicine was asked, and after care- 
ful consideration consented to give up his year and 
devote his time to this work. Mr. Leslie entered on his 
duties at the beginning of the present session ; the 
results of his work are well known to you all. We all 
appreciate his untiring efforts and zeal for the success 
of the work, and none more than myself. 

For the first time in the history of the Association, 
the work of the Fall campaign has been well organized. 
The results were very gratifying ; the new men were 
interested at once who might have remained passive, or 
at least not shown any definite interest for the present 
year ; in the Faculty of Applied Science is this espe- 
cially noticeable, there are as many members in the 
First year as in the whole Faculty last year. 

The work of the Social Committee has been carried 
on vigorously, the public reception to Freshmen being 
substituted by private receptions, proving a much more 
successful way of receiving new students. 

The devotional meetings have been held as hereto- 
fore ; the attendance has been larger than formerly, but 
still far from what we hope for. 

We are glad to report increased interest in Bible 
Study. We cannot emphasize too strongly the impor- 
tance of this department, and! earnestly hope and pray 
that it may be carried on more vigorously than ever. 

Northfield Conference.— I feel the Association could 
have done me no greater service than by appointing 
me delegate to this great gathering. May I express 
the hope that many of our members will arrange to 
spend the first twelve days of July at Northfield, this 
summer. 

Association Building. — It is with profound thankful- 
ness that we announce the gift of $5,000 from Mr. Geo. 
Hague. We are certain that when it is clear to the 
public by our increased activity that a building is ab- 
solutely essential many other generous donations will 
flow in. May the expressed wish of Sir Wm. Daw- 
son in the University Lecture be fulfilled, “ that the 
Christian Association should have from the University 
or its friends] means to provide proper accommodation 
for meetings and social reunions,” and upon the College 
grounds a building worthy of the institution and the 
work to which it will be dedicated. 

We cannot but express profound regret at the resig- 
nation of Sir Wm. Dawson from the Principalship. He 
has always been a true friend and counsellor, and the 
Association shall feel the need of his wisdom and kind- 
ness : 

“In retiring from office, allow me to express my ap- 
preciation of the ready and efficient co-operation from 
my companions in office. I trust that my successor will 
continue the work more efficiently, and lead the Asso- 
ciation to be the greatest power for good in the Uni- 
versity.” 



194 



MCGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Following this report, the sub-committees presented 
their reports through the chairmen, opening up the 
field of work covered by the Association, special in- 
terest being shown in the reports on Bible Study, 
Social Work and Building Fund. 

The last mentioned received thorough discussion 
from the meeting, and great interest was shown in the 
anticipated building, the allusion to Mr. Geo. Hague’s 
generous gift of $5,000 being enthusiastically received. 
It may be a surprise and somewhat of a disappointment 
when it is stated that the meeting approved of the re- 
commendation of the Building Committee to not make 
any move toward securing a building immediately, but 
the following reasons were considered to justify this 
action : 

(1) The unsettled condition of the University, being 
without a Principal and from other causes, renders this 
an undesirable time to approach the Governors. 

(2) The financial depression which would materially 
affect a canvass for subscriptions among business men 
and even the students themselves. 

(3) The fact that the Association is not sufficiently 
understood either by the College authorities or the 
citizens of Montreal. 

Concluding with a strong recommendation to the 
Association to seek temporary accommodation in the 
College buildings of a nature to, in some measure, take 
the place of an Association building and ultimately 
lead to this. 

The question of College morals was discussed, and a 
strong recommendation to the new Social Purity Com- 
mittee was passed, that this matter have their serious 
consideration. 

Prof. Carus-Wilson, whose presence and practical 
interest was most encouraging, spoke of the need of 
some effort being made to locate new students in desir- 
able boarding houses, and made a notice of motion to 
the effect that a committee be appointed to look after 
this matter. 

The elections resulted as follows : — 

Hon. President — Sir William Dawson. 

President— Walter T. Le Rossignol, B.A., Med. ’95. 

1st Vice-President— Wm. C. Sutherland, Art. ’95. 

2nd “ “ H. P. Archibald, Science ’97. 

Rec. -Secretary— Arthur Gun, Med. ’95. 

Treasurer— Reginald H. Rogers, Arts ’95. 

Asst. -Treasurer— Alex. R. Ross, Arts ’97. 

A vote of thanks to the retiring officers and subse- 
quent speech from Messrs. Day and Le Rossignol, the 
meeting adjourned after devotional exercises, and the 
Association entered on the second decade of its exis- 
tence. 

The Provincial (Ontario and Quebec) Convention 
will be held in Toronto, January 25 28; there will 
doubtless be a large College delegation. We hope 
McGill will be well represented and that much prac- 
tical help will be received and given by our delegates. 

A voice from China : Rev. W. H. Cossum, of Col- 
gate, now missionary in the great Empire of the East, 
in writing home to prospective missionaries, says : 
Learn to be honest with God; ’’surely these words touch 



the very centre of a man. Are we in God s sight, what 
the surface would indicate ? Man looketh on the out- 
ward appearance, but God looketh on the heart. 

The course of Bible Study to be pursued this term 
is taken from Christ’s interviews with men. An in- 
creased number are entering the classes, and we hope 
for an increased interest. 

outline 

I. Christ with his family (Introductory). 

II. With men eager for a new era. John 1 : 29-51. 

III. With one who recognized His authority, but 

stumbled at His teaching. John 3 : 1-15. 

IV. With a woman*of alien race, prejudiced mind, 

and bad reputation. John 4 : 1-42. 

V. With the despised and outcast. Mark 1 : 40- 

45J 2 : 1317. 

VI. With men zealous of the forms of religion but 

possessing none of its spirit. Mark 2 : 23 ; 

3 : 6. 

VII. With a disheartened witness. Luke 7 : 18-35. 

VIII. With representatives of opposite Social classes. 

Luke 7 : 36-50. 

IX. With men who ascribe the effects of Christ- 

ianity to unfit causes. Math. 12: 22-37. 

X. With men who seek the “ Loaves and fishes.” 

John 6 : 22-71. 



MONTREAL VETERINARY MEDICAL 
ASSOCIATION. 

The regular meeting was held in the lecture room, 
6 Union Ave., Thursday evening, nth inst., with Dr. 
Charles McEachran in the chair. The business of the 
Association being disposed of, Mr. Moore reported a 
case of choking in a mare which he attended during 
the previous summer. 

The first essay of the evening was read by Mr. R. 
H. Grattan, who presented as his subject, “ Azoturia.” 
The paper was a practical one, and evoked considerable 
discussion. Mr. J. D. McGillevray then read his paper 
on “Anaesthetics.” He strongly advocated their use 
in all painful operations on the lower animals. After 
discussing this paper the meeting was adjourned. 



LITERARY SOCIETY. 

The first meeting of the Undergraduates Literary 
Society, since the holidays, was held on Friday evening, 
Jan. 1 2th. Mr. Latnbly presiding 

Owing to the meetings having been suspended for 
some time, considerable business had accumulated 
which had to be attended to. 

A new programme committee was elected, consisting 
of Messrs. Davidson, Sc. ’97; Hickson, Arts ’95; 
Ireland, Arts ’94 ; Marler, Arts ’97 ; Pollick, Arts ’96. 

Much time having been occupied with the business 
of the evening, it was thought advisable to have no 
debate. 

A very enjoyable reading, however, was given by 
Mr. A. R. Ross, Arts ’97. 



McGill fortnightly. 



195 



A communication from the Literary and Scientific 
Society of Toronto University was read by the Secre- 
tary, in which it was stated that two of their members, 
Messrs. J. H. Brown and S. J. McLean, had been 
chosen by that Society, to take part in the intercolle- 
giate debate which is to be held on Friday evening, 
Jan. 26th. 

As we remember the intense interest with which we 
listened to the debate between the McGill and Varsity 
boys last season, we regret that so many miles inter- 
vene between Montreal and Toronto, of course render- 
ing it impossible for many of us to be present and hear 
the debate this year. 

McGill has two good representatives in Mr. Howard 
and Mr. Mullen, and we are sure that these two men, 
who are both excellent speakers, will do us great credit 
on that occasion. 



McGILL MINING SOCIETY. 

The regular meeting of this Society was held on 
Thursday evening, December 17th, there being very 
few members present. 

Owing to the illness of the president, Mr. Cole oc- 
cupied the chair. 

After the business of the Society had been transacted, 
the acting president called upon Capt. R. C. Adams to 
address the meeting, the subject of the address 
being : Some Methods of Obtaining Mining Capital.” 

This paper was very interesting and instructive, and 
was listened to attentively by all those present. 

At the close of the address a hearty vote of thanks 
was tendered to the Captain, after which the meeting 
adjourned till after the holidays. 

We understand that the Mining Association of 
Quebec are considering the affiliation of this Society, — 
a step which if brought about will no doubt prove a 
great benefit to this Society. 



THE CLASSICAL CLUB. 

The regular meeting of the Club was held on the 
evening of the ninth of last month, with a fairly good 
attendance. The Club is fast proving of practical 
benefit and assistance to those who have taken advan- 
tage of the opportunities it affords ; and these oppor- 
tunities, of a two-fold nature, must, as soon as their 
value is fully appreciated and their character more 
generally known, make a wider impression among the 
students of the Faculty of Arts than they have hither- 
to done. For it is too well known to need discussion 
here, that the classics occupy a position in a University 
course which is surpassed by that of no other branch 
of study and equalled by that of few ; and therefore 
any scheme which promises assistance to the students 
in general in this part of their work calls for the 
earnest support and co-operation of those who would 
be benefited by such assistance. The Club not only 
puts it within the power of its members to listen to 



papers on classical subjects of interest and variety 
from gentlemen whose names are too well known to 
call for introduction, but it enables them in a practical 
way to try their own wings, by giving them the oppor- 
tunity of themselves preparing papers on such subjects 
and of reading at its meetings authors who are not 
read in the ordinary course and are less widely known. 
At this meeting we had the pleasure of listening to a 
lecture on “ A Comparative Study of Greek and Roman 
Eschatology ’ ’ from Mr. John T. Day. This subject 
is one which enters very extensively into all classical 
literature, and it was treated in an exceedingly 
masterly and interesting manner by the lecturer. 

The introductory part of the lecture dealt with the 
general principles of Eschatology, and the conditions 
influencing its formation. Among the formative in- 
fluences were mentioned natural causes, environment, 
the imaginative faculty, the moral consciousness. 
Simultaneously with the development of this moral 
consciousness, w r ith ideas of right and wrong, there 
arose thoughts as to the nature and extent of rewards 
and punishments, and these thoughts and ideas were 
translated so as to apply to the mysterious realms of 
the future. It was pointed out that in the history of 
religion, as in the history of philosophy, development 
is expected and sought for. There was a religious 
evolution among the Greeks and Romans, as well as 
in other nations. The theology of Socrates was not 
the theology of Homer : hence the religions of nations 
varied with their age. 

The greater part of the lecture consisted of a com- 
parative examination of the two eschatological systems 
as delineated in Homer’s Odyssey XI, and Virgil’s 
^Eneid VI. The ideas of Homer were ill-defined, 
veiled in uncertainty, permeated with mysticism ; the 
conceptions of Virgil were much better defined, stated 
with less groping and more authority, and were some- 
what materialistic. The sole employment of Hades 
and Erebus by Homer in describing the future world 
indicated the narrow conceptions of the period. Tar- 
tarus and Elysium were not mentioned in his descrip- 
tion of Hades, though they were noticed elsewhere in 
the Odyssey. Virgil’s account of the unseen world 
was then detailed at length, compared with the 
Homeric faith, and shewn to be much more minute 
and advanced, removing, as it did, the monotonous 
gloominess of the Hades of the Homeric age. In 
support of this, a large number of terms used by Virgil, 
to divide up the next world into habitations for the 
blessed and the wicked, was adduced, and the signifi- 
cant absence of any such differentiation on the part of 
Homer was noticed. 

An investigation and comparison of the causes which 
led Ulysses and ^Eneas to visit the abodes of the dead 
followed ; of the difference in the matter of vows 
and sacrifices ; of the drinking of blood by the souls 
of the departed; of the time occupied in the journeys : 
and of the manner of departure from Hades in either 
case. 

In conclusion, the suggestion was made of a study of 
this subject as presented by the Greek dramatists. 



196 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



WHAT ? WHERE ? WHEN ? 

Note.— Kerns for this column must be in the hands of the Editor by 7.30 p.m. on 
Saturday. 

Friday, Jan. 19TH. 

Y. W. C. A. Prayer Meeting. East Wing, 5.05 p.m. 

Wesleyan Literary Society. Ferrier Hall, 7 p.tn. 

Y. M. C- A. Prayer Meeting. Arts Building, 7.15 p.m. 
Undergraduates Literary Society. Arts Building, 8 p.m. 

Saturday, Jan. 20TH. 

App. Sci- Glee Club, Steeple Chase and Drive, afternoon. 

Y. M. C. A. Bible Class. 1st and 2nd years Arts, 11.30 a. 111. 

Sunday, Jan. 2ist. 

Y. M. C. A. Meeting. City Association Building, 4.30 p.m- 
Wednesday, Jan. 24TII. 

Y. M. C. A. Bible Class, Science, 5 p.m. 

Editorial Board. Fraser Institute, 7.30 p.m. 

App. Sci. Glee Club, 5 p.m. 

Thursday, Jan. 25™. 

Delta Sigma Society. East Wing, 4 p.m. 

Veterinary Med. Society. 6 Union Ave., 8 p.m. 

Friday, Jan. 26 th. 

Intercollegiate Debate. Toronto. 

Y. W. C. A. Prayer Meeting. East Wing, 5.05 p.m. 

Wesleyan Literary Society. Ferrier Hall, 7 p.111. 

Y. M. C. A. Prayer Meeting. Arts Building, 7.15 p.m. 
Undergraduates Literary Society. Arts Building, 8 p.m. 
Applied Science Aunual Dinner. Balmoral Hotel, 7. ;0 p.m. 

Saturday, Jan. 27TH. 

Y. M. C. A. Prayer Meeting. Arts Building, 11.30 a.m. 

Editorial Board. Fraser Institute, 7. 30 p.m. 

Medical Society. Medical Buildiug, 8 p.m. 

Sunday, Jan. 28 th. 

Y. M. C. A. Meeting. City Association Building, 4.30 p.m. 
Wednesday, Jan. 31 ST. 

McGill Mining Society. Old Science Building, 7.30 p.m. 

Y. M. C- A- Bible Class. Science, 5 pm. 

Classical Club. East Wing, 8 p.m. 

App. Sci. Glee Club, 5 p.m- 

Thursday, Feb. ist. 

Y. W. C. A. Missionary Meeting. East Wing, 4 p.m. 

Friday, Feb. 2nd. 

Arts Conversazione - Wm. Molsou Hall, 8 p.m. 

COMPARATIVE MEDICINE CLASS REPORTS. 

On Christmas day Dr. Charles McEachran gave his 
annual dinner to the'students of this Faculty. For the 
last nine years Dr. McEachran has provided a Christ- 
mas dinner to those students who were unable to spend 
their holidays at home. These dinners are always 
looked forward to with great pleasure by the boys, and 
are most enjoyable affairs. 

The one this year was no exception to the rule 
Nineteen students sat down to the repast, and the 
hearty manner in which they drank the genial Pro- 
fessor’s health indicated that they had a warm place in 
their hearts for him and that they thorough}- appre 
ciated his kindness. 



Wales certainly has a most worthy representative in 
McGill. 



On Dec. 20th, the annual Veterinary concert was held 
in the lecture room, 6 Union Ave. ‘ This affair was 
instituted some years ago by the students as an occa- 
sion to present a Christmas token to that efficient and 
worthy house-surgeon, Dr. John Milloy. The programme 
then consisted of a presentation speech by one of the 
students, and a response by the Doctor. Since then 
songs and dances have been added, and now it is 
really a first-class entertainment. 



Our rambler from Binscarth now leads a quiet life. 



NEW BOOKS. 

“ Salient Points in the Science of the Earth ” is the 
title of a recently published book by that veteran 
author and scientist, Sir J. W. Dawson. It is an octavo 
volume of 500 pages, prefaced with the following 
sentence, which gives a fairly accurate forecast of its 
contents and object: “The present work contains 

much that is new and much in correction and amplifi- 
cation of that which is old; and is intended as a 
closing deliverance on some of the more important 
questions of geology, on the part of a veteran worker, 
conversant in his younger days with those giants of 
the generation, who in the heroic age of geological 
science piled up the mountains, on which it is now the 
privilege of their successors to stand.” 

It comprises eighteen chapters, each dedicated to 
some prominent co-worker and author, and dealing 
with different though kindred topics. 

The work is really a compilation of some of the best 
monographs ever published by him, all having been 
revised and arranged in a more or less connected 
manner, and written in Sir William’s faultless style, 
which makes it very interesting to any popular science 
reader, while not devoid of the discussion of weightier 
problems which will make it of value to the scientist. 
It undoubtedly represents the results and deductions 
of some of his best scientific work. There are also 
forty-six engravings illustrating the more important 
points. 

In the first chapter, entitled “ The starting point,’’ 
the author lays down his well worn hammer, and casts 
a retrospective glance over the field he has traversed, 
with its headlands and spurs, its rivers and valleys 
and tells us whence he draws the material for his work 
and his reasons for putting it in its present form. 
Succeeding this, he talks of “ World-making,” in which 
the reader is reminded of the vision of Mirza. A dream 
suggest the probable origin of the world, and this he 
graphically depicts. We see the black and shapeless 
masses beginning to revolve, light gradually breaking 
in upon them, and the earth and starry firmament 
appearing. The earth’s crust becomes cracked and 
folded, mountains are piled upon, volcanoes pour out 
their lava, life appears in recurring forms and increas- 
ing complexity, until the earth of to-day appears before 
us. In successive periods we see different floras and 
faunas covering its surface and inhabiting its seas, and 
are given a description of what must have been the 
appearance of the primeval forests. The cause of 
volcanoes is also discussed, and we are told that the 
earth has a solid nucleus, with a comparatively thin 
crust, beneath which there are great semi-fluid “ mag- 
mas” differing in specific gravity. The lava from the 
craters of volcanoes varies in consequence, depending 
upon the stratum from which the mass is derived. 

He vigorously opposes the hypothesis of Haeckel 
and others as to the origin of life in successive geolo- 
gical periods, being merely an outcome of the “ survival 
ol the fittest, and claims that we must look for other 
causes to account for the advent of multitudinous forms 
of life at the beginning of each period. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



197 



He next discusses the “Imperfection of the geo- 
logical record, and instances several cases of how in 
the most unexpected manner the gaps have been, and 
are being, filled up not only by professional geologists 
but also by amateurs. The history of the North 
Atlantic is graphically described in the fourth chapter, 
and is his revised address, when president, to the 
British Association at its meeting in Birmingham in 
1866. 

After making a general survey of the physiography 
of the earth, he discusses the conditions which deter- 
mined its position and form, the changes it has ex- 
perienced in geological times, the relation of these to 
the development of life on land and in water, and he 
foreshadows its probable future. 

In the next two chapters we are introduced to some 
of his most important work : that which brought him 
first prominently before the scientific world in the 
earlier part of his career, and about which so many 
scientific battles have been fought. With unusual 
eloquence he tells the history of the discovery, and 
gives a description of that now famous fossil “Eozoon 
Canadense,” indicating the dawn of animal life. He 
then proceeds to give us its probable relations to other 
forms of animal life, the manner of its mineralization 
and preservation, its microscopical characters, the part 
it played in the building of our great beds of Lauren- 
tian limestones, its probable origin, and final dis- 
appearance through altered environment from the 
fauna of later periods. This chapter will well repay 
perusal by all those interested in scientific research. 
It may be here stated that several palaeontologists have 
denied this fossil a place in the extinct animal king- 
dom, and claim that it is of mineral origin. If it is 
clearly proved to be of animal origin, it represents one 
of the oldest, if not the oldest, form of organic remains 
known. 

In the next chapter, which treats of the apparition 
and succession of animal forms, evidence is adduced 
from palaeontology against the Darwinian theory of 
development, and after citing a great many instances, 
he sums up at the close of the chapter his views in 
regard to the origin of species, the modification and 
succession of forms, the extinction of some and the 
continuation of others, the periodicity of groups and 
the probable causes. 

This is of great interest to the present school of 
scientists, as we have what are practically the final 
conclusions of one belonging to what might be called 
the Old School, brought up with the deep-rooted con- 
viction that all things are of Divine origin, and adher- 
ing tenaciously to it throughout, embodying with 
caution and where necessary into his belief those prin- 
ciples of the later school which are consistent with his 
conception of development and with revelation. 

In the following chapter he deals with “The origin 
and distribution of plants in geological times,” giving 
approximately the appearance of the various groups 
from the lowest to the highest, and their modern re- 
presentatives. We are told that the conditions of the 
earth’ were* ever changing, and the fossil remains of 



plants found in some localities are altogether in-* 
consistent with the present climatic conditions, but 
point clearly to vast changes in the contour of the 
earth, which has been successively clothed with rich 
flowers, some of them giants of their types when com- 
pared with their modern representatives, but which 
have become extinct by the altered environment He 
tells us that “ there have been, and might be again, 
conditions which could convert the ice clad Arctic 
regions into blooming paradises, and which at the 
same time would moderate the fervent heat of the 
tropics,” when even Spitzbergen might bloom as Eden. 
Following this we have a description of how the great 
coal beds have had their origin in situ , from huge 
forests of gigantic tropical trees, the representatives of 
which in modern times are comparatively small. He 
tells us of the process of metamorphosis which they 
underwent, which resulted in peat, lignite, bituminous 
and anthracite coal, all such potent factors in our 
national wealth. In connection with this department, 
or Paleobotany, Sir William has done more probably 
than any other in describing and tracing the develop- 
ment of the fossil flora of the continent, and his col- 
lection in the Redpath Museum is probably the largest 
and best of any in America. 

Contemporaneous with these huge carboniferous 
forests, there lived, as far as geological records tell us, 
the oldest land animals. Of these, a number of remains 
have been discovered in the hollow trunks of fossil 
trees, and in the next chapter the author gives us an 
account of these, the oldest air breathers. They con- 
sisted of snails, milliptds and some vertebrate forms 
allied to the batrachians and reptiles. The monograph 
concerning these represents a part of Sir William’s best 
scientific work. The following chapter tells of how 
these and other forms have left literally their “ Foot- 
prints on the sands of time and illustrates how this 
is done by referring to the Atlantic seaboard, where 
continual depositions of detritus are taking place upon 
which animals leave their impressions. The mud 
there becomes baked in the sun, and the impression is 
preserved. The observance of such facts as these has 
been the means of clearing up a great many obscure 
markings in geological times which must have been 
made under analogous conditions. 

Predetermination in nature is the heading of another 
chapter, which shows how some very old forms have 
come down to us but slightly modified, still retaining 
their fundamental types : for example, the Metis 
sponges. 

The thirteenth chapter treats of the Great Ice Age. 
It tells of the time when our continent presented vastly 
different conditions to what it does at present, of great 
depression and consequent submergence, of huge ice- 
bergs floating from the North, eroding the rocks 
beneath, and carrying with them mateiial destined to 
form future islands and shore deposits. He refers to 
Belle Isle, and the eroding action of the icebergs there, 
to glaciers and glacial action in general, and infers 
what the conditions must have been eight or ten 
thousand years ago, when whales were stranded on the 



198 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



shores as far west as Smith’s Falls, and the remains of 
representatives of the fauna at present' living in the 
Gulf of St. Lawrence were left high up on the slopes 
of our mountains, which were then islands or completely 
inundated. 

Climalical changes are then dealt with, and he men 
tions the theories set forth from time to time in ex- 
planation of them on astronomical as well as geologi- 
cal grounds. 

Under the heading of the “ Distribution of Animals 
and Plants, ’ he discusses the Darwinian theory as to 
the origin of species in islands isolated at great dis- 
tances from the continent, and compares Darwin’s 
statements with data derived from geology. 

Then follows a chapter on Alpine and Arctic plants, 
in which the author beautifully describes a trip on foot 
up the slopes of ount Washington, and points out 
the change in the flora at different levels, and shows 
that it gradually approaches in character as we ascend 
that seen as we travel north, until at the summit true 
Alpine and Arctic plants are found. 

The probable origin of the plants, and the ‘reasons 
why they have remained until the present, with little 
cr no modification, are stated, and this affords another 
instance of the immutability of species when once 
established, and remaining under the same conditions. 

The last two chapters treat of the appearance of man 
on the earth and his place in Nature, the distinction 
between Palanthropic and Neanthropic, and the differ 
ences between their cranial capacity and development 
along with the approximate age of the remains. He 
also gives some account of their habits and of the caves 
in which the remains are found. 

The affinities between man and the lower animals 
are stated, and also the characters which place him 
above all other forms of animal life and makes nature 
subservient to his end. The whole story of the earth 
and every form of life has been one of progress and 
species like individuals have had their periods of birth 
vigor and decay. The changing conditions probably 
have had something to do with this, but development 
has gone on higher and higher in each epoch until the 
final culmination in man. 

The salient points treated are very important ones 
in geology, and are done in Sir William’s easy and 
pleasing style, and running through every chapter he 
shows an unwavering faith in a 

Divinity that shapes our ends. 



“Say, Jimmy, what’s eucalyptol ?” 

“ Why, don’t you know ? It’s something or other 
called after Eucalyptus, the god who invented Medicine, 
of course.” 



It is said that arterial sclerosis is apt to fellow great 
mental and nerve strain. The members of the Fourth 
year are now in a very critical condition and are 
hardly expected to last out the session. 



Even the Xmas and New Year feasts have their 
sad thoughts for the poor student, for as he looks 
upon that fowl, thoroughly “ stuffed ’’ yet robbed of 
all its feathers, he thinks how sad it would be if his 
condition were similar after the rapidly approaching 
spring examinations. 



This practice of indefinite roll-calling in Medicine 
and Surgery is troubling the minds of the Third year 
men at present. 



Regular clinics are now being held at the Royal 
\ ictoria Hospital, in Medicine and Surgery. This 
comes as near as possible to a “ royal road to learning.” 



Mr. F. N. Rogers, who early in the session was 
attacked with typhoid fever, we are pleased to see has 
returned to his studies, and is looking quite able to 
cope with them. We hope he may be able to 
catch up to his work. 

We are pleased to note that the “ scrap ” between 
the First and Second years which promised to become 
a formidable breach has subsided, and that apparent 
good feeling exists between the two classes. 



LEGAL BRIEFS. 



Rough hew them as we will.” 



MEDICAL CLASS REPORTS- 

The question of the class picture is now absorbing 
the attention of the Final year. Already about twenty- 
five of them have consigned their classic lineaments to 
a happy permanence for the benefit of posterity The 
rest can be seen at any time practising sweet smiles 
upon one another and striking theatrical attitudes after 
the fashion of the “ stage-struck hero.” The large and 
varied assortment of neckties would do credit to a drv 

goods store “ We don’t do these things for our health 
gentlemen. * 



No Legal Briefs have been inserted in our last two 
issues, and 111 answer to numerous enquiries we would 
explain the absence by reminding our readers that the 
last number was issued during the holidays and that 
the previous number was printed while we were in the 
midst of Christmas examinations ; of course there is 
an absolute incongruity between Law Examinations 
and Legal Briefs or, in fact, brevity of any descrip- 



The Final year in Law have elected Mr. Gordon 
MacDougall to deliver the valedictory. This is as it 
should be ; Mr. MacDougall, through seven years of 
college life has always taken a prominent loZon 
among his fellow-students as well without a S P within 

th r ™’ r a u d 11 ,S fitting that lle should receive 
this last post of honor as a mark of appreciation for 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



199 



former services. It would be a good thing for old 
McGill if more of her students exhibited throughout 
their course the same amount of public spirit and 
University feeling which has marked “ Mack's’’ 
college career. 

On Wednesday the 10th inst., Judge Archibald 
received a congratulatory address from the students of 
the Faculty in connection with his recent elevation to 
the Bench. 

The address was as follows : — 

Hon. Mr. Justice Archibald, 

Superior Court, Montreal. 

Honorable and Dear Sir, 

The Students of the Faculty of Law of McGill 
University beg to offer you their most hearty congratu- 
lations on your recent well-deserved promotion to the 
Bench of the Superior Court of this district. They 
consider this evidence of public confidence not only a 
fit recognition of your eminent ability and legal learn- 
ing, but also a compliment to the Law Faculty of this 
University, which has long had the privilege of being 
able to avail itself of your distinguished services. 

It is the earnest wish of your students that you may 
long be spared to perform the duties of the high 
function to which you have been called by the rulers 
of this country, and also that the arduous duties of 
your position will not in the future prevent the con- 
tinuance of your connection with this Faculty, which 
has been attended in the past with such great benefit 
to those who have had the privilege of attending your 
courses. 

GORDON W. MACDOUGALL, 

President. 

CHAS. D. GAUDET, 

Vice-President . 

CHAS. WHITE, 

Seer eta ry - Trcasu rer . 

The Judge replied feelingly, and appeared to recipro- 
cate heartily the good-will manifested towards him. 



The Mackerel is a swift fish. 



We trust that in the spring examination on sale 
none of the boys will be sold . 



A lecture was given in the Faculty of Law lately, 
cn the question of harmonizing the relations between 
“Wages and Capital.” The problem has no terrors 
for the law student, 0° = 0° and always will so 
harmonize- 

Judging from the expression on the new Judge’s 
face, when one of our enthusiastic sophomores squealed 
out in ecstasy “ Oh ! Lilian Russel ! ! his honor must 
have doubted whether he was entering the same old 
timer faculty room or the less portentious but gayer 
precincts of the green room- 



SCIENCE JOTTINGS. 



For the remainder of the session Prof. Callendar will 
lecture to the Second Year on “ heat”. 



It was with a sad heart that he wrote at the end of 
his paper, “lam rattled and consequently plucked.” 
The examiner’s heart was touched, but he plucked him 
just the same. 

The student who said that ammonia had a “ picky ” 
smell, was probably thinking of a “ plucking” smell. 



The Gzowski silver medal for the best paper read 
during the past year before the Canadian Society of 
Civil Engineers has been awarded to Prof. J. T. Nicol- 
son, for his paper on the “ Transmission of Energy by 
Compressed Air.” The undergraduates extend their 
hearty congratulations. 



The ladies he essays to ogle, 

Of the Faculty he’s the Grand Mo-gul, 
And he has Roman law 
In the cricks of his jaw, 

And is commonly called Arthur H . . . . ! 



Q. What did you get in Projection? 
A. Fifteen. 

Q. What for ? 

A. For writing my name neatly. 



What’s in a name ? Sometimes much,— for instance, 
in the case of a cheque. Again Wednesday the ioth 
inst. was a cold day. On that day about 4 p.m., a 
promising youth from the Townships with a friend 
was drifting Faculty-wards, when suddenly the youth 
exclaimed : “ My ears are freezing ! O what shall I 

do ? ” “ Hans-on,... ” the friend began sympathetically. 
« Right you are,” interrupted the sufferer as he 
directed his digitals towards the freezing parts. 



The Annual Dinner of the Faculty of Applied 
Science will be held at the Balmoral Hotel on the 26th 
inst. Let Freshmen, Seniors, everybody, turn out and 
make the dinner as successful, from a numerical point 
of view, as it will assuredly be in other respects. 



Mr. J. K Scammell ’94 has been obliged to abandon 
his course on account of ill-health. We hope to hear of 
his speedy recovery. 



200 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



The latest rumor among the Fourth Year Miners, 
is to the effect that a certain member of the Honor 
Geology class has great reason to regret that his name 
does not begin with “ W.” 

The first students’ meeting for the session in con- 
nection with the Canadian Society of Civil Engineers 
was held in the Society’s rooms, Mansfield St., on the 
1 2tli inst. A most interesting and instructive paper 
was read by Mr. A. S. Dawson ’94, on “ Changes in the 
Main Line of the C.P.R.” It is understood that the 
next meeting will be held on jhe 25th, when a mechan- 
ical subject will probably be discussed. A large atten- 
dance of students from all the courses is desirable, on 
account of the useful character of the meetings as well 
as for the encouragement of “ home talent.*' 

FEATHERS FROM THE EAST WING. 

Since presentations seem to be the order of the day, 
it is not surprising that one of our Seniors was the reci- 
pient of what is at once an indispensable requisite of 
the geological student and a memento of one of those 
pleasant geological excursions which were so much 
enjoyed by all. 

It is the prevailing opinion that Proserpina must 
have picked up and put in her pocket the head of the 
small hammer that was lost, just as she was preparing 
to hasten away to brighten Pluto’s domains for a time. 
It is just possible she may bring it back with her in 
the spring, for pockets are so inexcessible that her 
grim lord would never dream that she had anything 
so foreign to her nature concealed about her person. 
The presentation was simply made, but the shuffling of 
feet just around the corner cut short the words of 
thanks for the gift which was fully appreciated. 



For sale in the Donalda rooms, valuable notes in 
Physiology. 



The menagerie in the Museum on Tuesday, at 10 
a. 111., seems to be a very badly trained one. Any slight 
occurrence causes a great commotion among its mem- 
bers. 



AN AMUSING APOLOGY. 

An English newspaper, The Yorkshire Post , recently 
announced the death of a Mr. John Sedgwick, and had 
to make a correction, as the gentleman was still alive. 
By way of putting the matter right, the correction con- 
cluded thus: “ The paragraph reached us from a 

usually trustworthy correspondent, and we regret 
“ that he appears to have been misinformed." 

This reminds one of the story of Dean Swift ; he had 
announced the death of someone, and the someone 
wrote to contradict it. “ This,” said the Dean, “is 
proof positive that he is dead, for he incapable of tell- 
ing the truth.” 



ARTS NOTES. 

The result of the Christmas examination was a 
great surprise to many. Some are jubilant, while 
others ask in despair, “ Where am I at ?” The havoc 
in the ranks of the First Year seems to have been quite 
as great as usual, though comparatively few were 
hopelessly “ ploughed.” 

Most of those who failed will be able to regain their 
places with the kind assistance of “ sups.’* The 
honors were pretty fairly distributed, no one having 
carried off more than w r as due. At the same time, only 
one succeeded in taking a first class standing in every 
subject, though others came very near doing so. 

The results were more surprising in other classes. 
Some surprised all their friends by taking very high 
rank, while others, who alw T ays have been in the van, 
were much mortified to see their names in Class II or 
Class III. Well, never mind ; we will do better next 
time. 



Junior, soliloquizing: 

“ Man wants but little hair below, 
Nor wants that little long.” 



The Library is now open until 6 p.m., and again 
from 8 p.m. until 10 p.m., excepting on Saturdays 
when it is closed at 5 p.m., as formerly. 



What an “ unprincipaled ” place McGill still is ! 



2 Pi r. 

Why do we not like pie ? 
Because it is too ’ard. 



“ II aime a se faire prier.” 

Translated by Senior (prompted by kind-hearted 
Junior ). — il He loves to say his prayers.’ 1 

Did you ever hear of the “Sweet Girl Graduate ” 
who wrote the following on the fly leaf of her text-book, 
on Science : 

“ If there should be another flood, 

For refuge hither fly ; 

Though all the world should be submerged, 

This book would still be dry.” 



Our “ Kindergarten ” have formed a toboggan 
slide in front of the Redpath Museum. The turn-out 
in the afternoons is remarkable. It is all right so long 
as they do not mistake the side walk for the slide. 



A city printer wants “ a good boy to make a devil 
of.” No use applying at McGill. 



a It is gratifying to hear that Stanstead Wesleyan 
College is having a very successful session this year- 
It could hardly be otherwise, with such a man as Rev. 
Mr. Flanders as Principal. There are besides the 
students in the Academical, Commercial, and Musical 
departments, fourteen undergraduates in] Arts— six in 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



201 



the Second Year and eight in the First Year. As 
Stanstead College is in affiliation with McGill, we may 
expect to see some of its students with us next year. 
We will make those who are so fortunate as to come, 
welcome. 



The Arts Conversazione will be held on Friday, the 
9th of February. 



L e R > ’95 (speaking of the comment on the 

Roman pronunciation made in a recent issue), “ I 
never heard that Caesar died of the ‘ falling sickness,’ 
I thought he died of too many Roman punches.’ * 



Sophomore : — “ I have an intensely interesting plot 
for a story.” 

Editor “ I am delighted. You had better write it 
up for the competition in the Fortnightly.” 
Sophomore : — “ Well, the only trouble is that it has 
already been written up by Rider Haggard.” Editor 
faints. 



At a recent meeting the Third Year appointed a 
committee to make arrangements for the annual tramp 
over to the Club House. The following comprise the 
Committee Messrs. Hanson, Le Roy, Tooke, Dyer 
and Symmes. 



A covered walk, or even a common plank-walk, 
leading from the Arts Building to the Museum and 
Library, would be a great convenience. Wading in 
snow over one’s ankles through people’s back yards 
may be interesting, but it has its drawbacks. 

i&ealring Notes. 



Students, teachers and physicians get Turkish baths at half price, at the Turk- 
ish Bath Institute in this city. Travellers say that nowhere in Europe can you get 
a better bath. 

Medical men generally are now recommending the Turkish Bath for the genera 
health, and more especially for rheumatism, coughs and colds. It is a very pleas- 
ant remedy. 

Gentlemen have the early morning, afternoon and evening hours. The bath is 
conveniently situated, being on St. Monique at the foot of McGill College Avenue. 



A very fine upright piano is now on view in L. E- N. Pratte’s 
piano warerooms, No. 167 6 Notre Dame street. The case is in 
Brazilian rosewood, natural color, and has been manufactured 
at L. E. N. Pratte’s factory. As to its musical qualities, it is 
only necessary to mention that it is an exact duplicate of the 
instrument sold and delivered last week to Prof. R. O. Pelle- 
tier, organist to St. Peter’s Cathedral, for his personal use as 
well as that of his advanced pupils. 







-HEADQUARTERS FOR- 



IFiiltie ifitiels 



on all Furs purchased 
this month at . . 



20% Discount 

THE ORAHAD1 FUR STORE 

Cor. Notre Dame and St. Lambert Streets. 

HELEN DRAKE , 



^Montreal. 



DRESS MAKING 



2407 ST. CATHERINE ST.. 

JUST WEST OF PEEL ST. 

. . . IMPORTER OF . . . 

Novelties in Materials for Dresses 

Millinery, Mantles, Trimmings, 

N.B. — Special selection of Novelties for Ball and Evening Dresses. 

In all Branches 

A SPECIALTY. 

Latest Styles from LONDON, PAEIS and NEW YORK. 

ESTI MATES3GI VEN. 

Sole Agent in Canada for . . . 

F. I. L„ CORSETS 

Highly recommended for Style, Comfort and Durability. Perfect Fit 
and Shape. 

JOHN MURPHY, 

PAINTER *»» DECORATOR. 

Fine Wall Papers . . . 

Artists’ Materials, &c. 

2301 ST. CATHERINE STREET. 



F 



OR Surgical and Veterinary Instruments and Chemical Apparatus, you will find it profitable 
to visit our showrooms. Our prices are low and our goods of best quality. No trouble 
to show our stock. College and Hospital Supplies a specialty 

LYMAN, SONS & CO. 



380 to 386 St. Paul Street, 



/Wontreal 






202 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



EMMANUEL 

CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH, 

Corner St. Catherine and Stanley Streets, 

REV. J. B. SILCOX, Pastor. 

SERVICES SUNDAYS : n a.m. and 7 p.m. Sunday 
School and Bible Class, 3 p.m. 

A cordial welcome to students at all meetings. 

Indian I J* eQ Depot— 

114 MANSFIELD STREET, 

(Corner St. Catherine Street.) 




ure Darjeeling Teas 

DIRECT FROM THE HIMALAYAS 

Sold by the 1 lb., also in 5 lb., 20 lb., 40 lb. 
and 80 lb. boxes, at prices to suit every one. 

.... IMPORTED BY ... . 

W. C. & C. C. LeMESURIER 

5ea5on 1893=4 

I beg lo announce that my stock, consisting of 
^ Suitings, Meltons, Beavers, FRIEZES, is now 

complete. . 

Special Discount to Students. 




f 



Our Specialty — Dress Suits, best Cloth and Workmanship, 
Silk Lining, $36.00. 



WM. FARQUH ARSON, 

Merchant Tailor, 

inspection invited. 135 st. Peter Street. 



WINDSOR MARKET. 



ESTABLISH ED 1839. 



Importers and 
Manufacturers of 



BROWN JBHOS. 

Fine Table DeliGaGies. 

The Emporium for Fine Meats, 

Cor- St. Catherine Street and tfcCill College Avenue 

Telephone 4038. 



Call at the 



HOLLY CIGAR STORE. 



TO #T)tLETES. 




Jerseys, Caps and 

Stockings, 
Running Shirts 
and Pants, 

English Spiked Shoes, 
Gymnasium Suits, 
etc., etc. 

Albert Demers, 

338 

St. James Street. 



McGill Crests 
Worked on Jerseys. 



REICHERT’S 

MICROSCOPES 

One of the finest lines extant, for 
which we are sole agents for the 
Dominion of Canada. .... 

jUicro. Accessories 
Clinical Tkermoineters 
Hypodermic Syringes 
Larynyoscopic plirrors 
Opihalmoscopes 
Stethoscopes 
Specula of all patterns 
Skulls and Skeletons 
Aspirators, Batteries 
Pocket Cases, etc., etc. 



/ 



STUDENTS’ OUTFITS A SPECIALTY 



CD 



and give us your custom for Imported and 
Domestic Cigars 

Specialties— College Cigars and Perique Mixture 



E have a very extensive line guaranteed first quality 
and finish on exhibition in our showrooms, . 

15 PHILLIPS SQUARE 



at very reasonable prices. 



PATERSON & FOSTER 



Ul. BERGPLDT $ CO., st. 



WHOLESALE AND RETAIL 



2397 



CATHERINE STREET 



Surgical and Dental Instrument Dealers 

MONTREAL 




MCGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



203 




THE SWIMMING BATH IS 80 FEET LONG AND 34 FEET WIDE 

The water is kept at an average temperature of 75 degrees 

PRICES OF ADMISSION — Bath and Swim, 25 cents, including towels and trunks. 

Turkish Bath, 75 cents. Students, Teachers, Physicians and Clergymen, 50 cents. 

To reach the Bath, visitors can take any car and get transferred to Craig Street Line, which 
brings you to the door. For further particulars, etc., apply to 

Telephone No. 7204 MR, KRUSE* Manager 



THE CELEBRATED . . . 




IS THE BEST GOODS OBTAINABLE FOR ALL THE 
PURPOSES IT IS NEEDED TO SERVE. 



The COOK'S FRIE ND is relaiM t y all Good Grocers. 

MANUFACTURED ONLY BY 

w. d. McLaren, 

MON TREAL 



COLIN CAMPBELL, 

Florist and Decorator, 

48 BEAVER HALL HILL, 

Formerly 76 Victoria Square. 

Greenhouses at ROCKFIELD, Lachine. 

Largest Stock of PALMS and other DECORA TIVE 
PLANTS in Canada: 

COLIN CAMPBELL, 

Telephone 3508. 48 BEAVER HALL HILL. 



D. NIGHTINGALE, 

Manufacturer of Billiard Tables, Improved 
Cushions, and Dealer in Sporting Coods, 
Best Hockey Sticks, &c., &c. 

1742 Notre Dame St., Montreal. 



CTlALAES bray, 

Gardener and Florist, 

FLOWERS AND PL A MTS FOR SALE. 

2562 St. Catherine Street. 




SAMUEL S. GRANT. 

1st Honors Pupil of 
Dr. Bucklin, A.M., M.D. 

SPECTACLES, EYE-GLASSES, 



Hours 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. 

HtNRY GRANT Si SON, Corner Dorchester Street. 



VICE-REGAL DECORATORS AND FLORISTS, 

86 VICTORIA SQUARE, 

W. 5. Davidson &• Sons, 

Branch 174 St. James St. Conservatories :--Cote St. Paul. 
Conservatory attached to 86 Victoria Square. 

Marriage Bouquets, Cut Flowers and Funeral Designs made to order in 
- every style at short notice. 

TEL. 9324 and 1734. 



THOMAS IRELAND, 

(Bngraber, 

118 Mansfield Street, Comer ofSb ' Catherine - 

Visiting Cards, Crests and Monograms, 

Door Plates, etc., NEATLY ENGBAVEP. 
Note Paper and Envelopes Stamped in Colors. 



QUT FLOWERS . . y 

JOS. BENNETT, 

. . Florist . . 

2392 ST, CATHERINE STREET, (Cor. PEEL) 

■ Tel. 4911. 



T. FITZPATRICK, 

m nrnr r/s r. 

Gold CrouJn and Bridge ulork a specialty. 

54 BEAVER HALL HILL. 

Telephone 3755. 



J. A. BAZIN. L.D.S.. 

DENTIST, 

MONTREAL, 

49 UNION AVENUE. 




NOW FOR YOUR FEET. 

Be Sure to Get the Best Value, 

J, SLOAN & SONS Have It. 

ALL SORTS AND SIZES. 



199 ST. ANTOINE.; ST. and 2647 ST. CATHERINE ST. 



204 



McGill fortnightly. 



W. H. HOPE, 

Manufacturer of 

PICTtTBB FRAMES 

Importer of 

Steel Engraving's, Etchings and Oil Paintings, 

TEL i™ 9 ONE 2253 & 2255 St. Catherine St., mo ntre *± 

REGILDING DONE. MIRRORS RESILVERED. 



FI 



OUNTAIN MARKET. 



. . Fish, Gam? ^and Ousters. 



Oysters delivered on the half-shell a specialty. 



HENRY GATEHOUSE, 

Oor. Beaver Hall Hill and Dorchester St. 



NOTICE— To the Committee of the McGill Fortnightly. . . 

The members c f this Committee and of the other College pub- 
lications are reminded that Desbarats 6° Co. execute Photo* 
Engiavings in the best style, suitable for Magazine illustrating 
The supplement issued in the McGill Fortnightly at the end 
of last season was a fair sample of their work. 

Telephone 1887 73 ST. JAMES STREET 



STUDENTS’ HEADQUARTERS 



W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

All the Books required for the 




SCIENCE AND 




The GE ORGE gISHOP 

Engraving and Pri nting C o. 



COLLEGE . C LUB AND 
SOCIETY PRINTING 



169 St. Sames Street 



PROGRAMMES 

MENUS 

INVITATIONS 

tickets 



The American Fur Store 

wholesale tijfsrfurinj) jju IT t Cl'S and RETAI .!: 

Nos. 27 and 29 St. Lawrence Street 



BRANCH STORE: 

2257 St. Catherine St., B< M cG?U V Colle^e A ve." 

Special Discounts to Students 



Fluide d’Hiver or Winter Fluid 



An effectual remedy for chapped hands, lips and all roughness o 
the skin, which it renders delicately smooth and soft. It is also a grate- 
ful application after shaving. 



Sir Morrell Mackenzie’s Inhalant 



A most effectual remedy for Cold in the head, Catarrh, Hay Fever 
and Influenza. 

. . FOR SALE BY . . 

J. A. HARTE, Chemist 

1780 NOTRE DAME STREET and 

2352 ST. CATHERINE STREET, Cor. Metcalfe 



Established 1859. 

HLHsTR/Y IR/. GKR ,A/5T, 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST, 

122 St. Lawrence Main Street, MONTREAL. 

The Dispensing of Physicians* Prescriptions a specialty. 

Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers supplied with 
Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale Prices. 

Orders solicited from Country Physicians. Mail orders attended to with dispatch 



FACULTIES OF McCILL. 



DOWN TOWN STORE : UPTOWN STORE: 

232 ST. JAMES ST. 2365 ST. CATHERINE ST. 



Fountain P?ns 




Diari?s, Calendars, 

Blank books, Stationary. 



BEST QUALITIES AND LOWEST PRICES. 

MORTON, PHILLIPS & CO., 

1755 and 1757 Notre Dame St., 
MONTREAL. 





McGI’LL FORTNIGHTLY. 



205 



JAMES SHEARER 

ST. GABRIEL LOCKS 

Manufacturer of Doors, Sashes, Blinds, Mouldings, and 
all kinds of House and Steamboat work. 

Sawn Lumber of all kinds Always on Hand. 



SHEARER & BROWN 

Manufacturers of Building, B ridge and Boat Timber 

Dealers in Square and Flat Pine, Hemlock, Tamarac, 

Spruce, Cellar, etc. Ohio Square W ite Oak always in Stock 
and Cut to O • dr. 



Point St. Charles, Montreal. 



E. J. Maxwell & Co., Lumber Dealers, 

725 OTLA.IC3- STREET, 

Dressed and Undressed Pine Lumber, Mahogany, Black 
Walnut, Cherry Qu»rt*ie<l and 1 lain Oak, 

Sycamore Poplar, Birch, Maple and other Hardwoods, 
Veneers, Dowels, etc., etc. 

Agents for Minton’s Ornamental Tiles, 

Perth Amboy Terra Cotta Coy., etc., etc. 



JOHN PAXTON 6c CO- 



Telephone 

365- 



Importers and Manufacturers of 



OILS, MACHINERY GREASE 

AND MICA AXLE CREASE. 

61 Common Street, - - Montreal. 



GEO. W. REED, 

^latc, Petal and (gravel Roofing 

ASPHALT FLOORING FOR BASEMENTS. 



Nos 783 and 785 Craig Street, 

MONTREAL. 



ROBIN & SADLER 

MANUFACTURERS OF 
OAlTC-T ATsTInTHIX) 

LEATHER BELTING 

MONTREAL and TORONTO. 

Our Belting in use throughout McGill Technical 
School. 

WJtiHTON. liORISON k CO. 

Masonry Contractors, 

2467 St Catherine St., Montreal, 

artists ” 

— USE ONLY — 

THE CELEBRATED OIL and WATER COLORS 

Manufactured by WINSOR & NEWTON, Artists Colormen to 

HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN AND ROYAL FAMILY. 

All Dealers have them 

A. RAMSAY & SOX. Agents for Canada. MONTREAT . 



<3-. J~. ESFLIH 

Box Manufacturers 



AND 

Lumber Merchants 



Office, 126 Duke Street. 



Montreal. 



GREAT BARGAINS IN BOOKS 

STANDARD - WORKS - AT - REDUCED - PRICES 

EACH SET NEATLY BOXED 

Plutarch’s Lives of Illustrious Men . 3 vols., cloth $2.50 reduced from $5.00 

l ord Lytton’s Works 13 “ “ 5.00 “ 13.00 

Geikie’s Hours With the Bible 3 “ “ 3. 00 “ 4.00 

Shakespeares Works 7 “ ** 7.50 “ 12.00 

F. E. PHELAN, 2331 St. Catherine Street. 

MOSES PARKER, 

IRON FOUNDER 

19 to 29 Dalhousie St-, 

MONTREAL. 



ESTIMATES FURNISHED. 



All Orders will receive Personal Attention. 



SAMUEL ROGERS & CO., 
TORONTO. 



DUNCAN R OBERTSON 
MONTREAL. 



THE SAMUEL ROGERS CO. 



OILS 



LUBRICATING 



ILLUMINATING 



(12 Gold Medals in 6 years.) 

GREASES. NAPHTHA. 

Ben Telephone 9i9o. 92 McGill St-, Montreal. 

GEO. S. KIMBER, 



ij viuu hum mwwu 111111 thin 

All kinds of Paper-Hangings in Stock. 

2466 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 

Bell Ttlephone No. 3287. Montreal. 



Passenger and Freight 



ANY DESIRED MOTOR. 



F 



LILilJ 




A 



JL v 



< 






106 KING ST., 

MONTREAL 



20 6 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Royal Insurance Co. I ^Canada 



Largest Fire Office in the World. 
Unlimited Liability. Absolute ‘Security. 

Every description of property insured at moderate rates of 
premium. 

Head Office for Canada : 

ROYAL INSURANCE BUILDING, MONTREAL 

\V. TATLEY, Manager. 

GEO. SIMPSON, Assistant Manager. 



ASSURANCE COMPANY. 



ESTABLISHED 1847. 



HEAD OFFICE , HAMILTON, ONT. 



Capital and Funds over 13^030-000 Dollars. 

Annual Income over $2,250,000. 



President, 



A. G. RAMSAY 



E. Hurtubise, 

Alfred St. Cyr, $ French Dept. 



Special Agents James Allin, I Special Agents 
W. S. Roberts* -n, J English Dfept. 
of G. R. Robertson & Sons. 



BEAVER LINE 

PASSENGER STEAMERS 

Sailing Weekly Between 

MONTREAL AND LIVERPOOL 

DURING THE SUMMER AND 

BOSTON AND LIVERPOOL 

DURING THE WINTER. 

Lake Ontario, 5300 Tons. ( apt. Campbell. Lake Superior, 5300 Tons, Capt. Stewart. 

Lake Huron, 5000 Tons, Capt. Carey. Lake Winnipeg, 3500 Tons, Capt. Herriman. 

Lake .Vipigon, 3000 Tons, Capt. Taylor. 

The Steamers of this Line have been built specially for the Atlantic Passenger 
I rade. 1 he state rooms are very large and have the best of ventilation. Superior 

accommodation f r all classes of Passongers at very low rates. 
Specially reduced rates during- winter months. Passages and 
berths can be secured on application to the Montreal Office or any local Agent. 
For further information apply to 

H. E. MURRAY, General Manager, 4 Custom House Square, 
MOUTBEAL , 

McCASKILL, D0UGALL & CO. 

Successors to D. A. McCASKILL & CO. 

_^ VflRN|5fIE5 dflpflN§ 



J. W. MARLING, Manager. 

Prov. of Quebec Branch, - MONTREAL. 

EDWARD L. BOND 

(jfji’re and fftarine Underwriter 
No. 30 St. Francois Xavier Street 



and COLORS. 

. . . MONTREAL . . . 



SUPPLIERS TO EVERY RAILROAD 
COMPANY AND CAR SHOP 
IN THE DOMINION 



4 



WARDEN KING & SON 

(Late Rogers & King.) 

Manufacturers of 

Spence’s Celebrated Hot Water Heaters, the 



CHIEF ACENT FOR CANADA: 

British and Foreign Marine Insurance Co. 
Reliance Marine Insurance Company 

LOCAL ACENT: 

London Assurance Company (Fire) 

the MOESOISTS BANK. 

! Incorporated by Act of Parliament, 1855. 

j Capital, all Paid up . . $2,000,000 | Rest, $1,150,000 

HEAD OFFICE, MONTREAL. 

DIRECTORS S 

John H. R. Molson, President. R. W. Shepherd, Vice-President. 

S. H. Ewing, W. M. Ramsay, Henry Archbald, Samuel Finley, W. M. Macpherson 
F. Wolferstan Thomas, General Manager. 

A. D. Durnford, Inspector. H. Lockwood, Assistant Inspector. 

JUM AG n ^NTS t ?N SnSopt®”;' ^mnipeg,' WoodstoJk.OnV. ’ J ° ° 

BankXS 

Liverpool^* Bank of Liverpool. C^-Muna.er and Sins er Balr^ Umited 
Antwerp, Belgium, La Banqued-Anver^^ 

Messls^o!^ 

of the Unfted States *— '<»" 

Letters issued, available in all parts if the VVorld. Travellers traitor 

HENDERSON BROS- 

dumber and gintber 

Steam Saw ctrid JPlcurting JVliUs 

344 WILLIAM STREET 

Dry Kindling Wood always In Stock 



ALSO STEAM RADIATORS, 

STABLE FITTINGS, and the 
NEW YORK SAFETY DUMB WAITER 

637 CRAIG ST., MONTREAL 



H. R. 



Established 
1859 



IVES A, CO. 

Architectural Iron Works 
Artistic Wrought Iron Works 

The BUFFALO HOT WATER HEATERS 

- General Founders, etc. 

9«en Str.el, MONTREAL 



McGill fortnightly, 



207 




CURNEY, MASSEY CO. ltd. 



Wholesale Manufacturers of 

HOT WATER HEATERS 
HOT AIR FURNACES 
RADIATORS, REGISTERS 
STEEL RANGES 



PLUMBERS’ SUPPLIES 
LOCKS AND SCALES 



Boilers guaranteed more economical and quicker circulation than any made. 

“ HOW BEST TO HEAT OUR HOMES/’ sent free on application, mentioning 
this paper. 

Address : 



383 tfc 387 St. Paul St. MONTREAL. 



ESTABLISHED 1S09 



North British and Mercantile 

INSURANCE COMPANY 



GUraorbinarg pircctorg. 

ThejRt. Hon. The Earl of Strathmore I The Right Hon.*Lord Wolverton 
The Rt. Hon. The Earl of Aberdeen I The Hon. Lord Well wood 
The Right Hon. Lord Forbes 



Invested in Canada, nearly 
Total Assets, - 



83 , 000,000 

52 , 053,716 



Head Office for Canada at Montreal === 

THOMAS DAVIDSON, 

Managing Director 



FIRE INSURANCE ASSOCIATION 

(LIMITED) 

OF LONDON, ENGLAND. 



Head Office for Canada, 



MONTREAL. 



CANADIAN BOARD: 

Sir Donald A. Smith, K.C.M.G., Chairman. 
Sandford Fleming, Esq., C.M.G., ) n . . 
Robert Benny, Esq. \ ’ directors. 



A. DEAN, 

Inspector. 



JOHN KENNEDY, 

Manager for Canada 



The Liverpool 5 London & Globe 

INSURANCE CO. 

AVAILABLE ASSETS, $53,169,135. 

One of the Largest Insurance Companies in the World 

All business accepted at most favorable rates and 
losses liberally adjusted 

<3-. : p. o. SMITH, 

(CHIEF AGENT CANADA BRANCH) 



16 PLACE D’ARMES, 



MONTREAL. 



Insure your Property with the 



OF 

ARTFORB 



Phoenix Insurance Co. „ 

TIME TRIED 
and FIRE TESTED 

SMITH & TATLEY, 

Managers for Canada. 

114 ST. JAMES STREET 



ESTABLISHED 1872 . 

The Guarantee Comp y 

OF NORTH AMERICA. 

BONDS OF SURETYSHIP 



Head Office, - Montreal. 

E. RAWLINGS, President and Managing Director 



TORONTO BRANCH 
Mali Huil.liug*. HBDUND * JONES, 



Northern Assurance Co, 

OF LONDON, ENGLAND. 

Branch Office for Canada-1724 Notre 
Dame Street, Montreal. 



INCOME AND FUNDS 1892. 

Capital and Acumulated Funds 535 . 730,000 

Annual Revenue from Fire and Life Premiums and from Interest upon 

Invested Funds 5,495 000 

Deposited with the Dominion Government for security of Canadian 

Poticy Holders 200,000 




ROBERT W. TYRE, 

Manager for Canada. 
City Agent: BROWNING” British Empire Building. 

, 




208 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 





Garth Co., 


lllllll 


[lot later, Steam k Sanitary Engineers 


Hi 1 | 1 || 11 1 


— TO T ZEE IE — 


. lllllfp 


McGill Unicersity Building, 




Royal Victoria Hospital, 




Board of Trade Building. 


^ ife aIIII XI>‘ f 


»lans and Estimates Given on Application. 



• pOBERT GARDNER & SON ™ 



MANUFACTURERS OF 

Fine Tools, Lathes, Planers, etc., 
Shafting, Hangers and Pulleys, etc. 

Nazareth , Brennan and Da/housie Sts., MONTREAL. 



J. K. MACDONALD 



PRACTICAL 



^ou$0 anil Jlbmnhrat JWI-lJawjor, Jfodhmiil| mib ic-nornl JBfodhinillj 

ELECTRIC LIGHTING, BELLS, WAREHOUSE TELEPHONES, Etc. 

CARPENTERS' and BUILDERS’ WORK TO ORDER 
762 and 764 CRAIC STREET, West of Victoria Square, Mni\iTRP n i 

Kell Telephone No. 2591 ™ « M Vr I 1 I | | [ V I 



Rolb©B»t Co. 

Manufacturers of - 




Engineers' , Plumbers’, 



G(is and, Steam fitters’ 



Goods. 



Office & Showroom, 8 Bleury St. 
Factory, St. Cunegonde, 




Montreal. 



McGIBBON & DAVIDSON, j 

Advocates, barristers, &t., 

aSTE-W YOBK LIFE BULL, DXTsTGr, 

MONTREAL. 

R. D. McGIBBON, Q.C. PEERS DAVIDSON. 


WIITEFORD & THEORET 

(SUCCESSORS TO A. PERIARD) 

3t;ur booksellers, {publishers amt b°°E hinders 

PROPRIETORS OF 

“ The Monthly Law Digest and Reporter,” 

AND ALSO OF 

La Revue Leg’ale. 

Bell Tel. 2921. 23 and 25 St* James Street, 1 

MONTREAL. 

To be Out Shortly = — Crankshaw’s Criminal Code of Canada, 1892- 


GEORGE BRUSH 

EAGLE FOUNDRY, MONTREAL, 

MAKER OF 

Steam Engines, Steam Boilers, Elevators, Stone Breakers, Etc. 

Office 34 King St. Tel. No. 435. 


ALEXANDER BREMNER, 

r IMPORTER OF 

, VW , DRAIN FIFES 

: |S|;! FIRE BRICK, FIRE CLAY, 

. chimney tops, enamelled 

'■-j, SINKS, CALCINED PLASTER, 

WHEEL BARROWS. &c. 

COAL OIL, 

Portland, Roman and 
V JBU Canada Cements. 

50 Bleury Street, Montreal, P.Q. 

TELEPHONE 356. 

Warehouse : — corner Water and Brock Streets. 


ABBOTTS, CAMPBELL & MEREDITH, ; 

Jutuorates, Solicitors, etc. 

No. 11 Hospital Street, MONTREAL 


J. B. Abbott C. S. Campbell 

H. Abbott, Jr., Q.C. H. J. Hague F. E. Meredith 


ATWATER & MACKIE 

JUlcocatcs, barristers, (Commissioners, etc. 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING Jq K[ U\[V C STREET 




BOYD & CO v Bel! Telephone l» 06 .y 

Custom House and Forwarding Agents and Warehousemen 

13 COMMON STREET, MONTREAL. 

Facing the Allan S.S. Co. Dock. 

First Class Storage for Goods in Bond or Free. 

References in Montreal : — Messrs. H. & A. Allan, Allan Line S.S. Co. ; 
Gillespie. Moffatt & Co., J. Rattray & Co., D. Torrance & Co., 
Dominion Line S.S* Co. ; Wm. C. Munderloii, Consul German Empire. 


J. S. Archibald, Q.C., D.C.L. Geo. G. Foster 

ARCHIBALD & FOSTER 

Advocates, Barristers, Etc. 

GUARDIAN ASSURANCE BUILDING 

181 St. James Street, - MONTREAL 


Telephone 1880 Cable Address, “Arcfost.” 


- TRIANGLE, 

SCALER, 


Hon. John S. Hall, Q.C., M.P.P. Selkirk Cross, Q.C. 

Albert J. Brown W. Prescott Sharp 

HALL, GROSS, BROWN 5 SHARP, 

Advocates, barristers and Solicitors, 

» .TEMPLE BUILDING 

185 St. James Street, - - MONTREAL 


Special Discounts to Students. 

HE&Rti & HARRISON, notre'dame 


W. & F. P. CURRIE & CO. 

100 GREY NUN STREET, 

Importers of 

SCOTCH GLAZED DRAIN PIPES, 

Chimney Tops, Vent Linings, Flue Covers, Fire Bricks, Fire Clay, 
Portland Cement, Roman Cement, Canada Cement, 

Water Lime, Whiting, Plaster Paris, Borax, 

China Clay, etc., etc. 

MANUFACTURERS OF 

Bessemer Steel Sofa, Chair & Bed Springs 

A LARCE STOCK ALWAYS ON HAND. 


Donald Macmaster, Q.C. Farquhar S. Maclennan 

MACMASTER & MACLENNAN 

Advocates, barristers, (tic. 

THE TEMPLE 

St. James Street, = MONTREAL 


ROBERTSON, FLEET & FALCONER 

gutuDcates 

157 St. James Street, MONTREAL 



Hazelton 

Dominion 

Berlin 



PIANOS 



Reimers 



Pratte 



AND THE iEOLIAN, VOCALION, DOMINION AND BERLIN ORGANS. 



Largest Stock. No Canvassers. 
One price only, and the lowest 



Easy terms. Old instruments 
taken in exchange 





1676 

*Notre Dame Montreal 



Pianos to rent. Repairing, 
Artistic tuning and regulating. 



Second-hand PIANOS at all 
prices. 



FURNITURE 

FOB 

Professors" and Students 

AT SPECIAL PRICES 



RENAUD, KING & PATTERSON 

652 CRAIG STREET 



Cood Fall and Winter 



• • 



BOOTS 



$2.25, 2.75, 3-50, 4.00 per pair 



JUST THE THING FOR STUDENTS 



Full assortment of RUBBE RS and OVERSHOES 

WM. F. SMARDON 

2337 and 2339 St. Catherine Street 

It goes without saying that— 

WALFORD’S 

is the favorite Studio with McGill. Class Pictures a specialty. 

Photos of Professors on sale. 

Our rates for Students are lower than ever this year. . 

Corner St. Catherine and Victoria Streets 



WHAT ARE YOU STUDYING FOR, 

A Doctor, a Lawyer, a Minister or an Engineer 7 

No matter what Art, Science or Profession, W0 can fit you all with Clothes. 

Good Wear, Good Fit and Low Price guaranteed. We have now 
everything desirable in Men's Wear from head to foot, including inner and outer 
garments, Underclothingf to Overcoat, Hats, Boots, Shoes and Rubbers. 
No need to run all over the City when you can get all you want from us at most 
reasonable Prices. Special discoun. to Students. 

JOHN ALLAH’S 

659 to 665 CRAIG STREET. 



Do You Paipt?. 

fainting requisites 
and Artists' Jflaterials. 

DRAWING MATERIALS, 

MATHEMATICAL INSTRUMENTS, 

At special prices for Students at ... . 

WALTER C9TT1NGHAM & CO., 

1822 NOTRE DAME ST., 

CORNER ST. HELEN. 




iV~xr^ 




{TE/UA 



MANAGER^ 




136 to 140 ST. PETER STREET 
MONTREAL. 



HATS, CAPS and FINE FURS 

Having opened a new store at 2411 St. Catherine Street, X would invite special inspec- 
tion of a large and choice stock of Hats and Furs in all branches 

WILLIAM SAMUEL, 3411 St. Catherine Street 



TELEPHONE 3466 




