jVlcGibfe Fortnight^ 

A Fortnightly Journal of Literature, University Thought and Event. 

VOL. III. MONTREAL, FEBRUARY 8, 1894. No. 9 



UU(®ill JjOttnigjjtli). 



* EDITORIAL BOARD ® 



Editor-in-chiefs- Homer M. Jaquays, B.A. (App. Sc. ’96). 
Secretary — Miss L. E. Armstrong (Donaldai’95). 

C. H. Zink (Com. Med. and Vet. Sc. ’95). Wm. Donahue, B.A. (Law ’96). 
H. M. Kinghorn, B.A., M.D. (Grads. Soc.) E. Commins, B.A. (Med* *95). 

C. J. Hickson (Arts ’95). 



* BUSINESS BOARD * 



E. B. Devlin B.A., (Law *95), Chairman . 

A. F. Edwards (Med. ’96). Miss E. A. Hammond (Donalda ’96). 

A. R. Holden, B.A. (Sc. ’95). J.C* Cutting (Com. Med. and Vet. Sc. *95). 

A. E. Gordon (Arts *96). 



The McGill Fortnightly is published by the Students of the University 
on the Friday of every second week during the College Session. 

The annual subscription is $1.00, payable strictly in advance. Remittance to 
be made to the Chairman of the Business Board, 85 Union Avenue, Montreal. 
Single copies may be obtained at Wm. Drysdale & Co.'s, E. M. Renouf’s, Cyrus 
Ashford’s, Chapman’s and W. Foster Brown’s, Booksellers. Price, 10 cents. 

Address Contributions to Editor-in-Chief, 963 Dorchester Street, Montreal. 



EDITORIAL COMMENTS. 



The debate between representatives of Toronto 
University and McGill, of which our readers will find 
a full account in another column, came bravely off 
the other evening, in the Molson Hall. We should 
have been glad if our men could have won distinc- 
tion and the debate ; but if they were not to win, we 
know of none by whom it would be pleasanter to be 
worsted than their skilful and courteous opponents. 
We heartily congratulate these latter gentlemen upon 
their well-earned success. It was no mere “walk 
over” for them, and McGill may be honestly congra- 
tulated also, for making a good second. The only 
party who came out of the encounter absolutely with- 
out laurels was the unfortunate Senate. Even the 
learned judge, in summing up the arguments, was 
obliged to be a little hard upon this august body ; 
and it is to be hoped that it (the body) may take 
warning in time, and do the needful, before the deci- 
sion reached the other evening can be carried into 
effect. 



We do not, however, wish to be thought to make 
light in any way of these inter-collegiate meetings. 
On the contrary, we esteem them among the most 
important events of the college year ; and very glad 
we were, that the large audience both of students and 
of their friends showed that we are not alone in this 
opinion. Though we domot think that Canadian 
Universities have, as yet, given that excessive promi- 
nence to athletics which has already grown into an 
admitted and serious evil in many institutions of 
learning, it is none the less worth while to remind the 
public (members of the Universities, of course, need 
no reminder) that the students have other recreations 
than foot-ball, cricket and hockey ; and that pro- 
minent among these other recreations are the literary 
and debating societies. All men are not born orat- 
ors — we are inclined to think that the true orator, like 
the true poet, nascitur non fit — but all men can, and 
as many as possible should, at least learn to express 
whatever they may have to say, grammatically and 
intelligibly. We know of no better aid in acquiring 
this power than such friendly contests as the one 
that has given rise to these reflections. They dev- 
elop not only a mastery of language, but, what is better 
still, a habit of accurate thinking ; and both are ac- 
quisitions than which nothing can be more valuable 
to a man, in whatever position he may in after life 
be placed. 

Inter-collegiate debates, moreover, are not apt to 
be attended with the most serious danger to which 
the less important contests between members of the 
same society are exposed ; — the danger of arguing 
upon subjects which one has not taken time or pains 
to thoroughly study. This, which can be productive 
only of wordiness, is, as we have said, a danger from 
which inter-collegiate debates are exempt ; since the 
importance of the occasion is sure to stimulate, if 
nothing more, careful preparation, before speaking. 

We should be heartily glad if the members of our 
Literary Society could arrange for additional debates 
with representatives of other Universities. 

Rumours have lately been circulating,— have, 
in fact, reached the secluded spot where we keep our 
“ board,” that, in conformity with the other equipments 



152 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



of the College, vveare to have two skating rinks. We 
need not say that this thought has caused us consider- 
able sorrow, for we have watched the building of the 
first rink with far more than ordinary interest, awaiting 
results which yet we hardly dared hope for. We had 
even anticipated buying a pair of skates for our own 
use. But now — now all is changed. We are to have 
two rinks. \\ e understand, however, that the second 
rink is at a decided disadvantage, because there is no 
place to put it : hence it is that we are led to offer the 
following suggestion. Why not flood the new rink over 
the old one ? We trust this will not be considered an 
interference on our part. The suggestion is made 
solely with the desire to help remove embarrassments 
if we can. 



VARSITY vs. McGILL. 

THE ANNUAL INTER-COLLEGIATE DEBATE. 

This annual contest was held in the Molson Hall, 
McGill University on Friday evening, the ist of 
February, when the Varsity men were successful. 
Before the appointed hour — eight o’clock — the Hall 
began to fill with those invited to the evening’s 
entertainment, and by the time the programme was 
begun the Hall was crowded to its utmost capacity 
with a most enthusiastic audience. The Students 
enlivened matters till the chairman, Mr. Hanson, 
Arts ’95, President of the Undergraduates Literary 
Society, opened the proceedings with a few pointed 
and well-timed remarks. 

Prof. N. W. Trenholme, Q.C., D.C.L., Dean of 
the Faculty of Law, kindly acted as judge. This year, 
instead of merely summing up the arguments ad- 
duced by both sides, and leaving the decision with 
the audience, the judge was to give the verdict. 

Before the chief part of the programme, the 
debate, was taken up, Mr. A. E. Heney gave an 
excellent recitation, and Mr. E. A. Burke, Arts ’98, 
rendered a song in a very capable manner. 

The question of debate was : “ That it would be 
unwise to abolish the Canadian Senate.” Messrs. 
W. W. Craig and M. C. Hopkins of McGill spoke 
on the affirmative side, and Messrs. H. Greenwood 
and R. L. McKinnon spoke for the negative. Mr. 
W. W. Craig opened the debate for the affirmative, 
and in an eloquent manner contended that in life 
there were many things which, however much our 
reason might rebel against, could nevertheless not be 
totally eradicated. One of these evils was, he con- 
tended, the division of society into orders and classes 
which was imposed upon us by the laws of nature, 
even though contrary to the laws of humanity. The 
speaker then briefly surveyed the forms of govern- 
ment which had existed since the beginning of history 



to the present day, showing that the ruling power 
which in early times had been vested in one man 
had gradually come to be exercised by the people. 
Hence second chambers became an absolute neces- 
sity, as was instanced in all governments of the 
present day, for checking the power which a lower 
house possessed, and the masses through the lower 
house. Of such second chambers, the English House of 
Lords Mr. Craig considered was the most efficient type, 
and the Canadian Senate, being modelled on lines 
closely allied to those of the House of Lords, was 
therefore, as far as practicable, the best second cham- 
ber which could exist. 

Mr. R. L. McKinnon, who led for the negative, 
eloquently and severely attacked the arguments set 
forth by the previous speaker, and maintained that 
Ontario was a most conspicuous example of an effi- 
cient government without a second chamber. This 
form of government, it was contended by the speaker, 
aided quick and honest government. The fact that 
the Canadian Senate was the product of one man 
was dwelt on, as also the fact that the men appointed 
were of the same opinions politically as the man 
who had appointed them, and thus in case of a change 
of government the Senate would in all probability 
veto the acts of such a government, even though it, 
through its lower house, was expressing the popular 
will of the day. 

Mi. M. C. Hopkins followed for the affirmative, 
and pointed out that all the great nations of the 
world had found the bi-chamberal system absolutely 
necessary. The speaker emphasized the fact of the 
extremely vacillating character of popular will, and 
claimed that without a second chamber, laws which 
were the result of years of experience might be 
swept away without due consideration by the caprice 
of the people under some pressing momentary excite- 
ment. It was only by having a second chamber 
composed of men who are not affected by every 
change of party that a stable and efficient form gov- 
ernment could be upheld. 

The last speaker, Mr. H. Greenwood of Toronto, 
who followed for the negative, ably maintained that 
as the Canadian Senate was wholly out of touch with 
the electorate, its abolition would be a benefit. It was 
an insult to the Canadian people to inform them that 
the men whom they elected to represent them were 
dishonest and incompetent to govern their country. 
More especially was the maintenance of a second 
chamber out of place in a country so thoroughly dem- 
ocratic as Canada, where such a chamber did not repre- 
sent the opinion of the majority of the electors. 

Dean Trenholme, before giving verdict, compli- 
mented the speakers on both sides for their very able 
handling of the question. He reviewed the argu- 
ments pro and con, pointing out that the affirmative 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



*53 



had clearly maintained the advisability of a double- 
chambered government ; but as the question was as 
to the advisability of the continuance or discontinu- 
ance of the Canadian Senate in particular, he must 
give his verdict in favor of the negative, as they had 
clearly proved the inefficiency and incapability of 
this second chamber. 

After the mental contest ha been closed, the 
speakers were entertained by the committee at sup- 
per. The Committee, to whom the success of the 
evening’s proceedings is due and the trouble entailed 
of making the necessary arrangements, was composed 
of the following : 

V. E. Mitchell, Law ’96, Chairman. 

R. W. Suter, App. Sc. ’97. 

N. M. Trenholme, Arts ’95. 

R. H. Rogers, Arts ’95. 

J. G. Saxe, Arts ’97. 

J. C. Colby, Arts ’98. 



CONTRIBUTIONS. 

THE UNIVERSITY OF HEIDELBERG. 

I have received of late some enquiries relating to 
Heidelberg, and, more especially, as to the University, 
its methods and work ; and will, therefore, seek to 
give as briefly as is consistent with clearness an ac- 
count of the things concerned. 

Much the best way to reach Heidelberg after arriv- 
ing in England is to take steamer thence to Ostend, 
or, better still, to Antwerp, and proceed from there by 
rail to Cologne. Here, if the season be the summer, 
one can board the comfortable Rhine steamer ; and, 
after a day’s sail up the Rhine, will arrive in May- 
ence late in the same evening. From Mayence the 
journey to Heidelberg is completed by rail, either of 
two routes being chosen. That by way of Worms 
and Mannheim is certainly interesting, but hardly so 
much so as is the alternative route by way of Darm- 
stadt. Arriving in Heidelburg about the middle of the 
day, the economizing student will leave his trunks and 
hand- baggage at the railway station, and will at once 
seek a lodging, so as to avoid the expense of a stay 
at an hotel. The best way to do this is to go straight 
to the Lodgings-Commissioner of the University, 
whose office is to be found on the second floor of the 
University building, and ask of him the addresses of 
suitable places, which may then be inspected. 
Another plan, which is much followed even by 
strangers, is to furnish one’s self with a city newspaper 
and seek out a lodging from among the advertised 
rooms. Within five minutes of the University, and 
not too far to the east is the preferable locality. 



The cost of living varies with the tastes of the stu- 
dents. Lodging alone, without light or heating, will 
cost from five dollars to eight dollars per month for a 
single room, and from seven to ten dollars fora sleep- 
ing apartment and a study. Board ranges between 
very wide extremes, according to the measure of the 
students’ ideas. If he were a German theological 
student, he might provide his own meals, and reduce 
the cost of living to little over five dollars per month. 
If, on the other hand, luxury were a desideratum, a 
pension of the better class would be in order ; and 
there board and lodging together would make the ex- 
pense about one dollar per day. The poor student 
has a good chance in Heidelberg, as there are very 
few calls upon his pocket, except such as he himself 
may wish to make ; while the simplicity of his living 
is a matter which is purely private, and need not be 
known to even the Hausmutter, or landlady, who 
takes charge of the apartments. 

If one is comfortably settled, and the semester or 
half-year is already open, the student will make his 
way as soon as convenient to the University Secre- 
tary, whose office is likewise on the second floor of 
the University building, and will communicate to him 
in good German his wishes. If he be an American, 
Canadian or English graduate, he will be matricul- 
ated ; while, if not a graduate, he can receive only a 
permission from the University Senate to hear lec- 
tures. On presenting himself for admission, there 
will be an immediate request for a passport or other 
paper of identification. This, on being handed over, 
is retained by the University, and, in its stead, a card 
which confers restricted citizenship is furnished to the 
student. Such a card is to be carefully kept, as it 
gives citizenship to the student holding it at what- 
ever University in Germany he may attend during 
the course of his student life on the Continent. The 
cost of the matriculation for foreigners is five dollars 
at the University of Heidelberg, which sum covers 
the other preliminaries as well. 

Once the student has given notice to the adminis- 
tration of his desire to attend lectures, he should ask 
fora copy of the programme announcing the lectures 
which are being given during the half year. He is 
then in position to select a few which he can attend 
by way of experiment, and, after hearing these, he 
will be able to judge as to which professors he should 
elect to hear during the rest of the Semester. The 
courtesy of a professor will allow a student to hear 
him once or twice, or even oftener, before a final de 
cision is made. Having made up his mind whom to 
hear, the individual most concerned takes his An- 
nouncement Book, which is given him after the 
favorable hearing of his application for admission, 
and, when he has written therein the subjects which 
he is desirous of taking, he visits the professors con- 



154 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



cerned, and secures their signatures to the respective 
entries he has made in his book. 

All that remains to be done by way of formality is 
to pay to the University Bureau, sometime within 
four or five weeks from the opening of the Semester, 
the fees for the courses of lectures chosen. In Heid- 
elberg the fees are slightly higher than at some other 
German Universities, being at the rate of $1.25 per 
hour for every hour’s lecture attended in the week. 
Hence, if a student attend a course of lectures in 
Philosophy, and there are four lectures each week in 
the subject, the fees for the whole term will be deter- 
mined by multiplying the four hours by $1.25, so 
with all other lectures, excepting a few which are 
given without fee and the lectures in the Theological 
Faculty where the half-yearly fees are $1.00 for every 
hour of lectures during the week. In addition to the 
lecture fees, there are minor fixed charges amounting 
to $1.50 each half year. One of these smaller items 
is a charge for membership in the Students’ Sick 
Union, an institution which gives the student, if sick 
during the Semester, free medical care. 

The length of the time of attendance required of 
American or Canadian Colleges before proceeding to 
a degree is two terms, or semesters. But many stu- 
dents prefer to spend a longer time than this before 
promoting to the doctorate. A good deal depends 
upon the student’s previous training. Should a 
Canadian honour graduate in Philosophy wish to pro- 
mote in Philosophy here, a year might be sufficient ; 
should he, on the other hand, change his course and 
desire to take Mathematics whi'e here, there would be 
required very naturally a longer time. The gradu- 
ation fee is eighty-seven dollars and a half, all of 
which is paid in advance, and forfeited in case of fail- 
ure to pass the oral examination. The unfortunate 
candidate who misses promotion has, however, the 
opportunity of a second trial at a cost of thirty-seven 
dollars and a half additional. Besides the fee, there 
are required a dissertation, which must show thor- 
oughly independent investigation and knowledge, 
and the passing of an oral examination in three sub- 
jects, one of which is selected as chief, a second may 
be, in Heidelberg, an auxiliary subject, and the third 
must be something entirely independent of either of 
the others. 

I am very sorry to say that this democratic part of 
Germany has not yet arrived at the happy stage 
where women are generally admitted as University 
students. In Heidelberg they may study natural 
sciences and, it may be, by private arrangement with 
the professors, a few other branches in which the 
number of students attending is very small ; — as, for 
example, Sanscrit or some of the Oriental languages. 

If I were asked as to the advantages of studying 
in Heidelberg, I would mention the beautiful and 



healthful situation of the town, the relative cheapness 
of living, the advantage of a fine University in a city 
not unpleasantly large yet animated and interesting 
from many points of view. In connection with the 
University itself, there is the advantage of a splendid 
library, comprising 350,000 volumes, exclusive of 
150,000 dissertations and pamphlets and 5,000 manu- 
scripts and documents. There are also finely equip- 
ped institutes and seminaries for all kinds of practical 
work, those of the Medical and Natural Science Facul- 
ties being especially fine. The large Castle Park and 
the Botanical Garden are evidences of the privileges 
afforded to botanists for the study of their ^chosen 
science, while the just completed Zoological Institute, 
has much enriched the possibilities of the University 
in the direction of Zoology. Among the professors 
are some very well-known names, such as Kuno- 
Fischer in Philosophy, Winckelmann and Erdmanns- 
dorfer in History, Czerny and Erb in Medicine, with 
many others each standing high in his own depart- 
ment of knowledge. 

The historical aspect of Heidelberg University 
would require more attention than can be given to it 
in an article whose aim is so utilitarian as that of the 
present contribution. Suffice it to say that no Uni- 
versity in Germany is older than is this, the founda- 
tion dating back to Elector Rupert I. in 1386 A.D. ; 
nor has any university of the Fatherland had the 
eventful and tragic course which this has had. 

Among the German Universities, Heidelberg ranks 
in the number of its instructors fifth, excluding from 
the reckoning private docents and assistants. In the 
number of students attending lectures its position is 
eighth. The detailed statement of attendance during 
the present half-year is as follows : Theology 77, Law 
339, Medicine 225, Philosophy 138, Natural Sciences 
and Mathematics 249, students hearing lectures but 
not matriculated 202; making a total of 1230 stu- 
dents, of which number 359 are here for the first 
time. The total attendance represents an increase 
of 107 over the Winter Semester of last year. 

A glance at the nationality of the students gives 
the following figures : German students 851, English 
26, American 30, Canadian 3, Austrian 31, Swiss 23, 
Russian 25, Dutch 13, Japan 4, Bulgaria 7, other 
nationalities 15. 

The numbers of professors and docents in the vari- 
ous Faculties are as follows : Theology 8, Law n, 
Medicine 34, Philosophy 36, Natural Sciences and 
Mathematics 33. 

I have greatly admired the splendid scholarship of 
these German professors ; but perhaps equally to be 
admired is their intellectual independence. The lat- 
ter as a matter of course brings with it a great res- 
ponsibility to both instructor and instructed ; and, in 
particular directions, there is need for considerable 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



155 



training in independence in thinking on the part of 
the listening student, as, for example, in philosophy. 
He may find nothing to which he could object, but 
he will find many things which he will do well to 
think over and judge for himself. 

No student should feel in coming here that a fixed 
time will be enough to spend in study in Germany, if 
he is at liberty to go on until he is reasonably satis- 
fied with the amount of knowledge gained. There 
are very great possibilities of learning at a German 
University, so great that even the regulation time of 
three years’ study will not exhaust what is offered in 
any given subject. 

I have been told with some justice in America that 
German professors have not the faculty of imparting 
knowledge. This is the case with inferior ones ; but 
the regular professors, in Heidelberg at any rate, lec- 
ture with vividness, clearness and with an irresistible 
hold on the hearer’s attention. And, certainly, there 
is nothing left to be desired as far as their thought- 
fulness of the difficulties and peculiar mental consti- 
tutions of the individual students is concerned. 

I have been asked as to the degree of acquaintance 
with the language necessary for an advantageous 
hearing of German lectures, and would reply that, 
while it is hardly fair to come to Germany and ex- 
pect favors in the matter of the language, much kind- 
ness is shown to foreigners, and the intelligence of 
a student is not measured according to his knowledge 
of the speech of the country. It is necessary to have 
a fair knowledge of German grammar and a small 
stock of German w'oids to profit at all from what one 
hears ; but a thorough mastery of German, while an 
immense advantage, is not absolutely indispensable. 
If one be about to study here, a start in the language 
in Canada is eminently advisable, and, then, a short 
preliminary sojourn among German people in their 
own land will do much to give the required prepara- 
tion for University work. 

WALTER M. PATTON. 

Heidelberg, Germany. 



ENGLISH BALLAD POETRY. 

This title may appear somewhat vague, but was 
purposely left indefinite, in order that I might be at 
liberty to select such portions of the subject as would 
be likely to be most interesting, without being con- 
fined to any particular order or epoch. For in a 
subject of this nature, where the date and authorship 
of particular compositions are often equally uncer- 
tain, it would be evidently impracticable to fix upon 
any precise period in its history. I shall endeavour, 
therefore, in the following papers to give a general 
sketch of the rise and progress of Ballad Poetry in 



England, together with a particular account of some 
of the more important and interesting ballads which 
have come down to us, and (where the nature of the 
composition will admit of it) occasional specimens • 
in illustration of their character. With these few 
observations by way of introduction, I proceed to the 
subject before us. 

In order properly to appreciate the nature and 
history of ballad-poetry, we shall require to know 
something of its origin and of the class of men by 
whom it was first cultivated. As far as our know- 
ledge goes, the ballad appears, at least in England 
to have been a lineal descendant of the old romantic 
poetry of the Middle Ages, in which the minstrels, 
or poets of those days, were accustomed to celebrate 
the daring exploits and adventures of the heroes of 
chivalry and to expatiate upon the charms of their 
mistresses. For, as Spenser informs us : 

“It hath been through all ages ever seen, 

That with the praise of arms and chivalry, 

The prize of beauty still hath joined been.” 

These minstrels were an order of men, very com- 
mon in the Middle Ages, who made music and poetry 
their profession, and were accustomed to sing verses, 
composed by themselves or others, to the harp, or to 
recite them, on public occasions or at festivals, to the 
crowds of people who resorted to the fairs and other 
places of public entertainment at such times, and 
with whom they were extremely popular. Many of 
them, also, more especially those, we may suppose, 
who were held in the greatest estimation for their 
poetical or musical talents, appear to have been 
attached to the Court and the households of the 
wealthy barons and nobles, who were often them- 
selves lovers or followers of the Art ; and in many 
cases we find them existing as regular officers of the 
household, whose special duty it was to provide 
music and poetry for the entertainment of their em- 
ployers and their guests. 

The existence of such a class of men would evi- 
dently be indispensable in a rude state of society, 
where the masses of the people were wholly illiterate 
and uncultivated, and where even among the higher 
ranks of life the possession of the knowledge of let- 
ters was often regarded as the result of the arts of 
the magician or the wizard. It was through the 
agency of the minstrel, whose memory was stored 
with the legends and popular traditions of former 
ages, that the knowledge of past events in the history 
-of the people, as well as of their present achieve- 
ments, was rendered accessible to the popular mind, 
or transmitted to posterity. With the increase of 
knowledge, however, and the advancement of learn- 
ing, circumstances to which the invention of the art 
of printing imparted a wonderful impulse, the office 
and profession of the bard — for the minstrel was noth- 



156 



McGill fortnightly. 



in g more than a descendant of the old Celtic or 
Scandinavian bard or scald — would gradually de- 
cline, or would at least become restricted almost ex- 
clusively to the amusement or instruction of the 
lower orders of the people, who would still look to 
him as their oracle, and regard his songs as the em- 
bodiment of their historical and legendary lore. His 
songs, too, would have undergone a similar transform- 
ation, and from having been originally long poems 
containing the whole history or account of the most 
important affairs of a nation or of the life of some 
popular hero, would finally assume the form of short 
stories in verse, composed in appropriate style and 
metre, and recording events of no greater moment 
than a tragic or romantic love-tale or popular local 
tradition. In other words, they would be ballads, 
and the highly honoured and respectable poet of ro- 
mance would have degenerated into the ignoble and 
itinerant ballad-monger, not unlike those which 
abound at the present time in the streets of London, 
and to whom we are indebted for so many of the 

popular, but not strictly classical, compositions of the 
day. 

Such in effect was the result in the case of the 
English minstrels, although many centuries doubtless 
elapsed before it was finally brought about, and it is 
to some of the productions of the poets of this des- 
cription during these centuries that I propose to 
devote the gi eater portion of the following papers. 
With many of the earlier productions of this sort, 
however, it would be impracticable to do much in 
the way of quotation, inasmuch as the antiquity of 
the language in which they are composed renders 
them altogether unintelligible without the aid of a glos- 
sary. 

Of this class, the earliest and probably the finest 
specimen which we possess is the old heroic song of 
“ Chevy Chase,” which was for ages the favourite 
ballad of the common people of England, and of 
which, we are told, “ Ben Jonson used to say that he 
w'ould rather have been the author of it than of all 
his works ; ” in this only echoing the sentiment of 
Sir Philip Sidney, who, not long before, had declared 
that he never heard this old song that he did not 
find his “ heart moved more than with the sound of a 
trumpet,” “although,” he adds, “it is sung but by some 
blind crowder, with no rougher voice than rude style.” 

The ballad has come down to us in two or three 
different forms, and perhaps the most ancient of these, 
as Bishop Percy supposes, may have been the iden- 
tical song which in the mouth of the old “ blind 
crowder ” had so wonderful an effect upon the heroic 
soul of the brave and noble-hearted Sidney. How- 
ever this may be, wc regret that its rugged character 
and antiquated dialect will not permit us to do more 



than give a passage or two as specimens of the vigour- 
ous and war-like strain which pervades it. 

The story which it commemorates may be told in 
few words. The two families of Percy and Douglas, 
dwelling on the border between England and Scot- 
land, are at deadly feud. By a law of the Marshes, 
either nation was interdicted from hunting on the 
territory of the other without leave of the proprietors 
or their deputies. “ Percy, Earl of Northumberland, 
had vowed to hunt for three days on the Scottish 
border, without condescending to ask leave from 
Earl Douglas, Lord Warden of the Marshes.” Dou- 
glas could not brook the insult, and determines to 
repel the intruder. A fierce conflict ensues, and, if 
we may credit the ballad, proves disastrous to both 
parties, Douglas and Percy, as well as the principal 
knights among the retainers of each, having fallen 
in the contest. 

The ballad opens in fine martial style : 

u The Perce out of Northumbarlande, 

And a vowe to God mayd he, 

That he wolde hunt in the mountayns 
Off Chyviat within dayes thre, 

In the maugre of doughtie Douglas, 

, And all that ever with him be. 

The fattiste hearts in all Cheviat 

He sayd he wold kill, and cary them away ; 

1 Be my feth/ sayd the doughte Douglas agayn, 

1 1 will let that honlyng yf that I may. 5 

“ Then the Perce out of Banborowe cam,. 

With him a myghtye meany ; 

With fifteen hondrith archeres bold ; 

The wear chosen out of shyars thre. 

This began on a Monday at morne 
In Cheviat the hillys so he ; 

The child may rue that ys unborn, 

It was the more pitt£. M 

The death of Douglas, who is wounded in the 
bi east by an arrow from the hand of a powerful sol- 
dier in the train of Percy, is thus afiectingly des- 
cribed : 

“ Thoroue lyvar and longs bathe 
The sharp arrowe is gane. 

That never after in all his lyffe days 
He spake no wordes but ane, 
lhat was, ‘ Fyght ye, my merry men, whyllys ye may, 

For my lyff days ben gane.’ 

The Percy leanyde on his brande, 

And saw the Duglas de ; 

He tooke the dede man by the hande, 

And sayde, ‘ Wo’s me for the ! 

To have savyde thy lyffe I wold have parted withe 
My landes for years thre, 

For a better man of hart, nare of hande, 

Was not in all the north countre 

A more modern version of the ballad of Chevy 
Chase which has been immortalised by the panegy- 
ric of Addison, who devoted two papers of the 
Spectator to a commentary upon it, falls far short 
of the manliness and spirit of the ancient strain, 
which in Addison’s time had doubtless become obso- 



McGill fortnightly. 



157 



lete, and was destined so to remain, until it was 
again restored to the world by the diligence of 
Bishop Percy towards the close of the last century. 
A better proof of the inferiority of the later produc- 
tion cannot perhaps be found than in the opening 
passage, which we have already given from the an- 
cient version, and which is thus tamely paraphrased 
in the modern : 

H To drive the deere with hound and home, Erie Percy took his way^ 
The child may rue that is unborne the hunting of that day, 

The stout Erie of Northumberland a vow to God did make, 

His pleasure in the Scottish woods three summers’ days to take ; 

The chiefest haris in Chevy-Chase to kill and bear away, 

These tydings to Erie Douglas came in Scotland where he lay,” etc. 

E. G. 



POETRY, 



EUTHANASIA. 

I stood in a garden of flowers 
One sunlit afternoon, 

A garden of tangled banks and bowers, 

Where the languishing breath of the summer breeze 
Made murmurous music through the trees, 

And the grey gnats hummed in tune. 

A glory hung o’er all the place — 

The glory of summer and June ; 

It lay on every blossom’s face 
And painted each leaf with a fairer grace 
Than floats o’er the haloed moon ; 

It trembled in every passionate sigh 
Of the amorous zephyr which flaunted by ; 

It glowed in the soft and tremulous light 
On arbor and trellis and mossy walls 
Pure as the after-glow which falls 
From the roaming west when daylight dies — 

Dies on the breast of Night. 

The lily and jasmine smiled to the rose 
And hyacinth blue as the skies ; 

Each blossom which lifted its face to the sun 
Was fair as the fairest flower that blows 
Where Arno’s limpid waters run. 

On the rivers of Paradise 

The honey-bees and the droning flies 

Were crooning their drowsy lullabies, 

And tropical birds with lute-like throats 
The drooping sprays among 
Poured the rich melody of their notes 
In a full tide of song. 

* * * * 

I walked in the garden of flowers, 

Plucking its fragrant blooms 
And drunk with its sweet perfumes. 

I paused where a circle of tulips lay 
And breaking one blood-red blossom away 
And pressing the glowing petals apart 



I found far down in the tulip’s heart 
A dwelling of sorrow and gloom, 

For the bell was a swaying tomb. 

In the cup of the tulip flower lying, 

Dusty with pollen of lily and rose 
Caught from the lips of a thousand blows 
Of a thousand varied hues, 

A honey-bee lay dying — dying, 

Done to the death by sweets that destroy, 

By the richness of beauty which kills with joy — 
Joy the soul cannot refuse. 

Amid a garden of blooms she lay — 

Garden of blooms where the radiant air 
Is tinted with luminous colors rare, 

Where the shimmering light in spray 
Is flung from every bank of flowers. 

And flies in rainbow shafts and showers 
To weave a crown for the brow of day 
As she dreams in her floral bowers ; 

Where the trembling senses sweetly swoon 
Under the rich surfeit 
Of odors breathed from every leaf, 

And sink in a sea of dreamy grief. 

That thejleaves must lose their incense sweet 
And the flowers fade so soon — 

Born at the birth of morning fleet 
Must sink and die at noon. 

* * * * 



I knelt_in the garden of flowers, 

Mid all its fragrant bloom, 

When their glory had fled from the aging hours 
As light from a darkened room. 

While the choristers sang their requiem song 
While a ghostly glare sank low in the sky 
And the weary wind, with fitful sigh, 

Fled shudderingly along. 

And I prayed as I knelt that the glory of youth 
Might never depart from life, 

That the spirit of beauty and love and truth, 

Might dower my soul through woe and ruth 
With faith for the hour of strife. 

Let me die the death of the honey-bee 
In the full flood of satiety 
Mid bowers of beauty and love, 

While the flames of faith on the altar burn 
As fire dropped down from above, 

Ere the rich current of life shall turn 
And ebb to the gloomy sea — 

To that brooding ocean where darkness lies 
Mid fitful gleams from the lurid skies, 

And the hurricane howls in glee. 

If Love be a folly of youthful hearts, 

If Beauty like flowers that fade departs, 

If Truth be not in the inward parts, 

The glory and freshness of earth are fled, 

The spirit that walked with me is dead, 

And I cannot live alone. 



Cambridge, 



R. MACDOUGALL. 



158 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



IN MEMORIAM MDCCCXCIV. 

James Anthony Froude, the English historian and 
essayist, died October 20th, aged 76. He was one 
of England’s most brilliant men of letters and the 
most fascinating of historians. Mr. Froude for some 
years occupied the position of editor of a London 
magazine. At the time of his death he was Regius 
Professor of Modern History at Oxford University. 
Although he wrote much, he wrote well, and in 
all his voluminous writings there are very few dull 
pages. His “ Short Studies on Great Subjects,” his 

History of England,” and his “ Life of Thomas Car- 
lyle,” are the three books which occur to the mind 
when his name is mentioned. But he had a consi- 
derable influence over and above that which he exer- 
cised through his books. He was a man of strong 
convictions and some fierce antipathies, which some- 
times were on the right side. 

Madame de Gasparin, poetess and authoress of a 
work crowned by the French Academy, died at 
Geneva, June 18th, aged 81. 

Philip Gilbert Hamerton, English artist and litter- 
ateur, died November 5th, aged 60. He was an 
eminent writer and critic, who was widely read and 
thoroughly esteemed in three great countries. He 
was an Englishman who had chosen to make France 
his home, and who understood the traits of both 
nationalities. 

The death of Holmes in America, Froude in Eng- 
land, and Hamerton in France removes three great 
masters of wholesome and beneficent influence upon 
. the life and thought of their generation. 

Robert Louis Stevenson, died at Samoa on Dec- 
ember 8th, aged 44. He was amongst the most 
popular of modern writers. The book which estab- 
lished his reputation as a writer of fiction was 
“Treasure Island,” published in 1883, and amongst 
the most popular of his works was “Dr. J^kyll and 
Mr. Hyde.” Perhaps no author in recent years has 
enlisted so much personal interest on the part of his 
readers. 

Louis Kossuth, died in voluntary exile at Turin, 
March 20th, aged 92. His career as a public man 
ended many years ago, and his influence has been 
really of the historical and posthumous sort, rather 
than that of a participant in contemporary affairs. 
His old age was shrouded in disappointment, because 
he believed that his life had failed to accomplish 
the great object to which he had devoted it, namely, 
the political freedom of Hungary. His eloquence, as 
described by those who heard him on his visit to Lon- 
don and to the United States in 1851, has not been 
surpassed by any political speaker in this century. 

Vicomte Ferdinand DeLesseps, died December 7th, 



aged 89. Notwithstanding his disgrace and discomfi- 
ture which fell upon him during the last two years of 
his life, his name will be perpetuated through his 
scheme to pierce the Isthmus of Suez by means of a 
canal, and in successfully carrying it out he showed 
much zeal and indomitable energy. The canal was 
formally opened on November 17th, 1869, amid a 
series Df festivities. 

Such are the names of some who have entered 
into the haven of rest during the course of 1894, so 
far as our memory serves us and the space allotted 
to us permits commemoration. Amid the annals of 
death we can only name those whom memory and 
interest cull out for the “ lost” of the earth. We have 
not probably mentioned all who are noteworthy, but 
we have endeavoured, with honest impartiality, to 
speak the truth in love of those whom the world has 
lost, and for whom it rightfully mourns. 

As we sum up, in some measure, the losses of the 
year, we can scarcely avoid reflecting how sad a thing 
it seems that it should so frequently happen that just 
at the moment when, as it appears to onlookers, a 
thinker has ripened and matured his mind, and is, as 
it were, ready to bestow on the world some of the 
results of his life-labours, the functions of bein^ 
should cease, and he should become like a casket 
wherein rare jewels are enclosed, but which are locked 
for ever from the touch of others, — only a husk and a 
shell, out of whom all virtue is gone. Nature’s prime 
work cannot be perfected thus for naught ! Such 
fruits of the tree of life cannot surely drop from the 
branches of being for useless decay ! 

Even upou earth and among us, how mighty are 
the dead ! They give us our laws, letters, customs, 
education, faith and hope; they excite our gratitude, 
admiration, memory, reverence, emulation and love ; 
they are the pioneers of our career and the heroes of 
our aspirations, they have given us being, and they 
are gone before us to the haven of spirits. Verily the 
dead are powers, and principalities, and potentates, 
who rule our spirits from their urns. 

H. M, 



LAW DINNER. 

Once a year (and only once) do the grave and 
hard-worked students of Law allow themselves to be 
dragged forcibly away from the contemplation and 
study of legal tomes, of writs and alibis , and other 
cheerful and mirth-inspiring subjects, and, conse- 
quently, nothing but their annual Dinner could draw 
them from their seclusion. This was held at the 
Windsor on the night of the 31st of January, and was 
largely attended by the students, reinforced by the 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



159 



majority of the professors and a number of graduates 
of the old Faculty. The popular Dean of the Faculty, 
Dr. N. W. Trenholme, Q.C., was of course present, and 
appeared to thoroughly enjoy himself. He takes 
an active interest in all that pertains to his students, 
and is deservedly popular amongst them. He. how- 
ever, kept a watchful eye on them, particularly the 
Freshmen, lest the festivities should be too much for 
their quiet and well-regulated dispositions ; but no 
accidents occurred. 

Amongst the invited guests were Sir Charles Hib- 
bert Tupper, Minister of Justice ; Dr. Alexander John- 
son, Acting Principal of the University ; Mr. John 
Dunlop, O.C., Batonnier of the Bar; and Mr. Lafon- 
taine, Q.C., of Laval University. 

At half past eight all proceeded to the Ladies’ Ordin- 
ary, where an excellent dinner was discussed, whilst 
Patton’s orchestra helped to while away the time 
between courses. The chairman, Mr. Charles D. 
Gaudet (who, by the way, was evidently made to pre- 
side at dinners, — for a better chairman does not exist), 
then proposed the toast of the Queen, which was loy- 
ally responded to by all present. He then briefly 
touched on matters of interest to the Law Faculty, 
alluded to the presence of so many distinguished 
guests, and after speaking in a kind of fatherly way 
to his fellow-students, was loudly cheered on resuming 
his seat. He was followed by Mr. S. Carmichael, who 
eloquently extolled Alma Mater, and proposed her 
health in a ringing speech. He referred to the unity 
at present existing between all the Faculties, and 
hoped it would continue to grow. The Acting Prin- 
cipal, Dr. Johnson, responded in one of his clever and 
characteristic speeches, and it was clearly evidenced 
that the learned Doctor is cognizant of, and takes a 
deep interest in, all matters connected with each 
and every I'aculty in the University. 

Before closing, the Acting Principal proposed the 
toast of the Minister of Justice, who, on rising to res- 
pond, was greeted with prolonged applause and 
cheers by the enthusiastic students. 

He made a most clever and able speech, never 
allowing interest to flag for a moment ; and although 
he did not (as he said he would when he began) let 
his hearers into any State secrets, yet he told them 
many things of interest both as Law students and as 
Canadians, and referred in eloquent and tender terms 
to his great leader, lately deceased. 

Three hearty cheers and a “ tiger” were given him 
when he sat down. 

Mr. E. B. Devlin, ’95, proposed the health of the 
Dean and Professors,: and, needle-s to say, it was 
received with enthusiastic applause, for the students 
are proud of their Dean and professors, and clearly 

showed it. 

Dr. Trenholme, Prof. (Justice) Doherty, and Prof. 



McGoun replied to the toast in eloquent speeches, 
and the regard in which they are held was easy to 
be seen. In the course of his remarks the Dean 
referred to the* rapid strides made by this P acuity in 
the last few years, and spoke of the thorough train- 
ing it gives. 

Mr. W. Donahue proposed the Bench and Bar. 
Mr. Justice Archibald replied for the Bench, and 
Hon. J. S. Hall, Q.C., M.P.P., and Mr. Alex. Fal- 
coner for the Bar. Judge Archibald spoke of the 
age and dignity which are always associated with the 
Bench, and the duty devolving on all to uphold 
them. 

The toast of Laval University was proposed by Mr. 
R. T. Mullin in graceful terms, and eloquently res- 
ponded to by Mr. Eugene Lafontaine, Q-C., LL.D. 
After the toast of the “Sister Faculties” had been 
done full justice to by Mr. J. P. Whelan, Mr. A. W. 
Duclos, B.A., gave the “ Graduating Class,” to which 
Mr. J. A. Devlin responded. The last toast was 
that of the “Freshmen,” proposed by Mr. J. P. 
Landry, and responded to by Mi. J. A. Cooke. 

The Secretary during the evening read letters of 
regret at being unable to be present from the Hon. 
Mr. Taillon, Hon. Chas. T. Casgrain, Hon. Wilfrid 
Lain ier, and Mr. W. C. McDonald. 

Mr. C. D. White and Mr. E. N. Armstrong con- 
tributed greatly to the evening’s enjoyment by their 
soners that of Mr. White being deservedly encored. 

At the close of the evening the Dean proposed 
Mr. Gaudet’s health, and the students drank it with 
such vim that one would never have thought they 
had been drinking healths all night. 

Thus ended one of the jolliest dinners in history of 
the Law Faculty, and the “limbs” of the law 
thoughtfully wended their way home, reflecting sadly 
on the hard fate which prevented them enjoying 
themselves often in a like manner. 



( Tr a illations from Mons . L. //. Frechette.') 

IMPROMPTU. 

The splendour of the mighty forest charms me ; 

To view some mountain-top to me is sweet. 

But nought can equal still the grace which warms me 
In this fair flower that glows beneath my feet. 

0 headlands bold, in all your pride reflected 
In the still depths of the dark Saguenay ! 

Steep-rising cliffs by wondering crowds inspected ! 

Rock, with your crown by lightning torn away ! 

# 

Bare promontories, whose sharp ridges glisten 
On the far confines of immensity ; 

1 bow my head beneath'your shade, and listen, • 

In silent awe of your dread majesty. 

Vet, giant peaks, 'whom heav’n itself adorneth, 

Hills which defy man's right your forms to grasp 
All your magnificence my spirit scorneth 

For the soft touch of friendship's kindly clasp 1 ' 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



160 



SUPPLEMENTAL. 



The Xmas snow was falling fast, 

As up the u avenue ” there passed, 

A youth, who bore, mid snow and sleet, 
A new umbrella rolled up neat. 

As quick with fleeting feet he sped, 

To see if he had come out head, 

A vision haunted him, which said, 

Supplemental. 

But up the path he pranced with glee, 
He must be first and so must She, 
Donalda fairest, whom his heart’s 
Emotion favoured more than Arts , 

He knew the contour of that cheek, 

Far better than he knew his Greek. 

* * * * 

Still did that haunting demon speak 

Supplemental. 

His fancy floated on, to days 
Some years beyond, when two M. A.’s 
Should enter church and come out one ; 
Then up the steps he made a run, 

First class ? well she was there, his vim 
Grew less as he the lists did skim 
For her the first class ; but for him, 

Supplemental. 

# 

SOCIETIES. 



Y.M.C.A. 

On Jan. 27th we again had the pleasure of hear- 
ing Sir William Dawson speak on the subject “ Sinai 
and the Desert.” He gave a graphic description of 
the march of the chosen nation towards Sinai, and 
pointed out many practical lessons suggested by their 
sojourn at that sacred spot. 

On the 3rd inst. Principal Barbour, in his own 
pleasant way, gave an 'introduction to the Book of 
Numbers. He emphasized the need of remember- 
ing the historical setting of many of the events of 
that period which appear to us of doubtful propriety. 

Professor Scrimger, D.D., will speak next Sunday 
on the relation of the Decalogue to the Sermon on 
the Mount; and on the 17th Sir Wm. Dawson will 
again address us on the subject, “ Deuteronomy as a 
Mosaic Book.” 

Remember the Annual Meeting of the Association, 
Saturday evening, 8 o’clock, in Arts class-room, No.i. 



Y. W. C. A. 

Miss Radford led the Devotional Meeting on Wed- 
nesday, Jan. 30th, and the subject “Whole-Hearted 
Service” was clearly explained. We are pleased to 



be able to report that the attendance was much larger 
than that of the week before. 

On Jan. 31st the Annual Business Meeting was 
held to report the progress of the Association during 
the year just ended, and to elect officers for the ensu- 
ing year. The reports show a larger membership 
roll, good attendance at the meetings and more prac- 
tical* work done. It was decided to have a commit- 
tee, to be known as the Relief Committee, for the 
purpose of making clothing for and visiting the poor. 
Miss Reid was appointed to send to the Fort- 
nightly reports of the doings of the Y. W. C. A. 

The officers for the year 1895-6 are : 

Pres . — Miss Vaudrv. 

*/ 

Vice-Pres . — Miss Smith. 

Ireas . — Miss Steen. 

Corresponding Secy . — Miss Walbridge. 

Recording Secy . — Miss Cowan. 



DELTA SIGMA SOCIETY. 

That middy who will not stand by the old ship 
when she has sprung a leak is base indeed ; but what 
of him who deserts her while she is still sound, though 
needing “ all hands on deck” to avoid threatening dan- 
gers ? 

At the last meeting of this Society the Debate : 
“ Resolved, that the progress of civilization is not 
conducive to the growth of morality ” bore but a 
faithful few aloft on its waves of eloquence. Eloquent 
it was, for Miss Whiteaves debated on the affirmative, 
as did also Miss S. E. Cameron, while Miss Armstrong 
and Miss Wilson upheld the negative. Let it be 
noticed that these are four of our Seniors, and, there- 
fore, if for no other reason, deserving of a large audi- 
ence. But there were other reasons : the arguments 
were sound, the preparation careful, and “ my friends ’’ 
were never so passionately appealed to nor so con- 
vincingly either, for the “ friendly ” (also affirmative) 
side won. May those who might have heard this 
debate, and did not, seriously ponder the lost oppor- 
tunity ! 

These public rebukes are painful to deliver. Give 
us “ bumper houses ” in future and spare the neces- 
sity. 



CLASS REPORTS. 



SCIENCE JOTTINGS. 

The undergraduates of the Faculty of Applied Sci- 
ence meet on Feb. 8th for their Annual Dinner. The 
committee report a large number of tickets sold, and 
as these gentlemen have been particularly anxious of 
late, we may assume that the dinner will be a success 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



161 



Prof, in Metallurgy, to Fourth Year miners. — “ Put 
the charge in the muffle, and run for twenty minutes.’’ 
W. — “Please, sir, is it apt to explode that you have 

to run away ? ” 



Although the terms “ a pure shear ” or “ a tensions ” 
may be expressive, yet nothing so well describes a 
certain molecular action as the little word “ squeeze ” — 
so we are told. 



Our Freshmen seem to be aiming rather high this 
year. One of them was seen last Saturday starting 
in a race with Johnson and Donoghue as the only 
other competitors. He obtained third place. 



To determine the number of bacteria in a cubic 
centimeter of average water supply, make up the fol- 
lowing mixture : — 

R. 25 parts gelatine. 

15 “ Johnston’s Fluid Extract of Beef. 

20 “ Peptonized Porter. 

One spoonful sugar. 

One pork chop (broiled). 

Mix, heat gently, let it cool, put in the sample of 
water, and then let it form into a jelly. When the 
gentlemen have fed for a day or two on this in the 
sunlight, they will become nice and fat, and may be 
easily counted. Overfeeding, however, must be guard- 
ed against. 



ARTS (.LASS REPORTS. 

The query that one now hears passing among the 
Seniors is certainly not very elegant ; but here it is : 
“ Have you had your ‘ mug snatched’?” 



Mr. Fred R. Tooke, ’95, who represented Arts at the 
Law Dinner, characterizes that event as a “ grand 
affair.” Freddie deeply appreciates the law of hospi- 
tality. 



Prof, (explaining the Hebrew word for woman). 

1st Student. — What word does Solomon use to 
designate a hawling woman, in the verse : It is better 
to dwell on a corner of a housetop, etc. 

2nd Student. — (who envies the chrysanthemum 
locks of No. 1). Would it not be well fora fellow 
in such a position to get his hair cut ? 



Professor. — I would go further : I would advise him 
to have no hair at all. 



The Sophomores held a meeting on Friday, Feb. 
1st, to consider the question of having a great politi- 
cal debate. After a little discussion, it was unani- 
mously resolved that the debate should come off at 
an early date, pending, of course, the consent of the 
Faculty. The Conservative and Liberal Camps have 
selected their men, and from the names of those 
selected, as well as from the fact of their being pro- 
nounced feeling among the men, we may look for a 
very lively discussion. It is hoped that some of the 
professors will be secured as judges. 



McM — er. — “ Down with the cotton combines.” 
Down goes Me — , and a dozen others, and, sure 
enough, the young zealot’s cry was realized. 



Professor. — This is thrown up on the coast of Pata- 
gonia and other islands of the Pacific. 



Professor. — Yes, read the text first. 
K. — Shall I read it in Greek, sir ? 
McM. — No, read it in Hindi. 



There was something quite Homeric in last week’s 
strife with the Sophomores. FYiday morning the 
well-checked Sophomores crowded the passage near 
the German class room. Each had a figurative win- 
nowing-fan on his stout shoulder which he was only 
too willing to have knocked off. We offered a heca- 
tomb of our gowns and Virgils, and engaged in an 
immortal combat. ’Tis said the gods are mindful of 
the welfare of men — at all events, their messenger soon 
arrived with a whole mouthful of the bolts of Zeus* 
His presence was an inspiration to the all-glorious 
FYeshmen. With a biff-bang-blow! we gained the 
plain of Phrase-book. Then it was that the well- 
limbed How — d grasped C — y in a mighty embrace, 
and both were hurried down the steep ladder from 
the floor of the house top of the Languages. Neither 
met his doom. Their souls are not yet gone down 
to the house of Hades. 

The same field saw another sight on Wednesday. 
The defeat of the Freshmen, although not ignomi- 
nious, should still be told by the bard of the Sopho- 
mores. * 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



1 62 



Much sincere sorrow was felt by the members of 
Class ’97 when the news of the death of one of their 

classmates was conveyed to them. Mr. George Eric 

% 

Harrington, son of our much esteemed Dr. Harring- 
ton, died on Jan. 24th, after a somewhat long illness. 
He was much beloved by his classmates during the 
short time that he was permitted to be in their ranks, 
and he was missed by them this year. At a special 
meeting of the class, a resolution of sympathy with 
the bereaved family was drawn up, and it was agreed 
to attend the funeral in a body. 



LEGAL BRIEFS. 

The morning lecture had finished. The genial 
Professor of Successions took off his glasses, leaned 
forward in his chair, and gazed lovingly at the 
students for a few moments in silence, They saw r 
that something was coming, and cocked their ears 
accordingly, Something came. “ Gentlemen, ” said 
he, “ I hear that your dinner is coming off to-morrow 
night. From past experience I have reason to be- 
lieve that there will be a difference in the morning. 
Consequently I will not lecture on the following 
morning.” Riotous demonstrations of joy followed 
this remark on the part of the Freshmen ; an amused 
expression passed over the features of the Second 
Year ; while significant winks were exchanged be- 
tween such old stagers as the Dinner Committee. 

And by the same token didn’t we see the jolly 
judge himself at the dinner, eating and drinking and 
enjoying himself to the fid! — always in moderation, 
to be sure ; and didn’t he make one of the very best 
and wittiest speeches of the evening. It made no 
difference to him in the morning. But how thought- 
ful of him to consider our wants and necessities. Ah ! 
but he’s the kind Irish gentleman ! 



Mr. Bannell Sawyer, B.C.L., has visited us quite 
frequently of late. It is pleasant to see occasionally 
the smiling features of those loved ones who have 
passed through our mill. Mr. S. was a former class re- 
porter for this Faculty. He always has a hearty shake- 
hands for Ye Scribe. We understand each other. 
We are in the craft-knights of the quill, as it were 
It is truly comforting to us to get apart for a quiet 
moment, and to be able to pour into the attentive 
and appreciative ear of Mr. S. our tale of the difficul- 
ties and the arduous duties' which are undermining) 
our health in keeping this important Legal Column up 
to highwater mark. However, Mr. S. has always a 
supply of lively and cheering little anecdotes to relate, 



of the old days when his own shoulders stooped 
under the responsibilities of this important office ; 
and we are always enlivened and encouraged when 
we come into contact with him. In spite of it all, 
we are very much taken up with journalism — both 
of us ; and should the law fail, we intend to embrace 
that calling. We have the whole thing mapped 
out. It’s to be a twenty-four page evening sheet. 
Mr. S. will do the double-leaded leaders, and Ye 
Scribe is to hank around and scrap up news. Per- 
sonally, we don’t think we have got the best of the 
bargain ; but we have lots of time yet. We will 
think over it. 



The Intercollegiate Debate, which is to take place 
shortly between Toronto University and McGill, is 
the event of the year as regards our McGill Literary 
Society. Last year the Faculty of Law had the 
honour of contributing one of the debaters ; but this 
year, while not supplying its quota to the forces 
oratorical, is yet too well represented to have the 
slightest cause of complaint. One of our most ener- 
getic members is on the Committee, while our es- 
timable confrere of the Second Year, Mr. A. C. Han- 
son, as President of the Literary Society, will officiate 
as chairman. Moreover, our Dean is to act as judge, 
and the task of weighing the respective arguments 
could not be entrusted to better hands. The debate 
is looked forward to with considerable interest, and a 
delightful evening is assured. 



Criminal Law finishes this week. Now, gentlemen, 
gather in the slack. Exam, on the 23rd. 



The Professor of Real Estate can tell a story to 
illustrate a point as well as most. That one about the 
cock that crew in the morning, while on the subject 
of Property Rights, shed a bright light on the point 
at issue, and put the boys in good humour. How 
these feathery bipeds sympathize with each other ! 
Our old owl plucked up his side-intelligencers and 
twitched his stubby wings, and seemed to take a 
lively intererest in the adventures of his first cousin 
in the Courts of Justice. It was new to him— none 
but owls have to do with things of the law. But 
how careful we should be in our dealings with the 
fowl world when the ante-matinal antics of a single 
muscular and high-spirited cock can involve two 
mighty nations in a momentous official correspon- 
dence, and even threaten embassadors with dismissal 
and disgrace. 



McGill fortnightly. 



Dinner Notes.— A t last the First Year have 
loomed up in their proper importance. Mr. Cook’s 
speech at the Dinner really opened our eyes. We 
have hitherto undervalued the Class of ’9 7. The 
descendant of Brian Boru is now meeting with that 
respect and deference which is due to blue blood in 
a monarchially governed country like ours. The 
genius of William Pitt scintillates with a dazzling 
brilliance now that Mr. Cook has let us into the 
secret of his wonderful successes in the Mock Parlia- 
ment, and we are in a position to appreciate him. 
Ah ! ces vnhtaires. What shall we say ? We sus- 
pected that the Lieut-Col. had a martial bearing. 
Now we know it. Other orders are represented in 
the Year, — Captains are common. Let there be a 
Bond of union, however, between those who bear the 
sword in our Faculty, and us, peaceful civilians. As 

for H n, we are going to watch him. Mr. Cook 

was deservedly congratulated for the way in which he 
presented the claims of the First Year at the Dinner. 



Our popular President set the ball rolling in good 
shape, and was followed by the next undergraduate 
speaker in a very fine style. It was a formidable 
array for the apprehensive undergraduate to face, 
but of course the sight of the chairman had a very 
soothing effect on the nerves. By the way, the 
President was just the same the day following the 
Dinner as before. After hobnobbing with Ministers 
of Justice, and judges and high officials, we allowed 
a full week for his feathers to settle. But no, he was 
just the same the next day. He’s the boy. 



Some fellow has accused our friend Billy of im- 
bibing freely in Apollinaris, mistaking the same for 
something more highly flavored. Of course this was 
well on in the proceedings, and we believe Apollinaris 
was drunk by a gentleman who sat near to William. 
He teetotally repudiates that accusation. We were 
not far away from him, and can personally corro- 
borate his statement. He did nothing of the kind. 
He kept to healthy drink the whole evening. An 
insane man could not make such a mistake, and we 
know Billy has got some sense. 



At a meeting on Friday last, the Dinner Com- 
mittee were unanimously accorded a vote of thanks 
for the manner in which the dinner arrangements 
had been carried out. This was well deserved. The 
pronounced success of the meeting was undoubtedly 
due to the tact and diligence displayed by the Com- 
mittee of Management. 



163 



FEATHERS FROM THE EAST WING. 

When we have made books our constant compan- 
ions day after day, we occasionally think they are 
“ absolutely dead things, ” and long to put them down 
to talk with living things. A class lunch with one’s 
fellow-students is the most delightful way of accom- 
plishing this, as the Juniors would have you know. 
A few weeks ago they gathered round the festive 
board in the Third Year class-room, whose deformities 
were carefully draped for the occasion, and there 
they chatted and ate, drank healths and sang songs 
for two happy hours. ’Twere long to tell of the 
floral decorations, the ice cream which fairly melted 
in one’s mouth, the toasts to such customary persons 
as the Queen, and Sir Donald, the butterfly menu 
cards, the oyster patties, cold around the gills (of the 
oyster), etc., etc., so let it suffice merely to mention 
them. When Duty’s stern voice called, we went, 
wreathed in flowers and smiles, and left some hungry 
friends who had entered, to make the outside of the 
platter clean. 

The verdant Donaldas held their first lunch on 
Tuesday, 29th January. The class-room was most 
artistically decorated, though on pushing back the 
graceful curtains the point attracting attention was 
the table lined with rich red i roses. Everything was 
excellently managed, but the special feature was the 
toasts. The first to the Queen was heartily joined 
in, all rising to sing the national anthem except a dis- 
loyal Celt. But in the toast of Alma Mater the dis- 
loyal Celt came to the fore. The other toasts were 
wittily and eloquently responded toby Misses Scrim- 
ger, Carr and Codd. The disloyal Celt once more 
contributed to the general pleasure by singing a song 
entitled “Josephus and Bianchus.” On leaving, every- 
one wondered how soon we could have another ; but 
like Xmas, “ they come but once a year, and when 
they come they bring good cheer.” 

Sundry tales are being whispered of such remarks 
as “ moisten your lips and look pleasant ” being made 
to our Seniors. 

Professor Cox has kindly consented to be our rep- 
resentative at the Applied Science dinner. 

The Class of ’97 regrets that illness has caused the 
absence of so many of its members since the New 
Year; but we are very glad to announce their com- 
plete recovery, and to welcome them once more 
among us. 

MEDICAL CLASS REPORTS. 

Owing to the fact that the last issue of the FORT- 
NIGHTLY contains an account of the opening of the new 



1 64 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Medical Buildings, it might not be inappropriate in 
this issue, to approach the subject very biiefly from 
a student’s point of view. 

It is needless to remark that, as students of the 
University, we rejoice in the progress of all its 
branches ; but we can also feel justly proud, when we 
remember that we are Undergraduates of the old and 
time-honoured I- acuity of Medicine. And moreespec- 
ially can we feel so now, that this Faculty has at last 
reached such a high standard, and affords such facil- 
ities for the better equipment of its students with all 
that is necessary for their advancement, in almost 
every department. 

When one considers, however, that such extensions 
of buildings and teaching facilities necessarily entails 
more work on the student, one might at first suppose 
(were he unacquainted with the medical student) that 
such changes would not be welcomed very enthusias- 
tically, Such, however, is not the case. And this 
is not a cause for surprise, remembering, as we do, that 
the Medical Profession, above all other professions, 
requires thorough men to carry on her work with 
success and honour, and that such thoroughness alone 
can be obtained by persevering and methodical work. 

And still another factor aids to make the change 
acceptable, and it is not to be wondered at that we 
hail with delight the modern improvements, when we 
recall the various degrees of myopia and strabismus, 
developed in an ill-lighted dissecting-room, while 
searching with fear and trembling for some structure 
microscopical in size and oftenest found in text-books, 
or the process of devitalizing our physical, mental and 
moral natures, in trying to imbibe lectures in Chem- 
istry in a room where gases contrary to all physical 
laws, diffused, not according to the square root of their 
densities, but in direct proportion to their abnox- 
iousness. 

But still we look for future changes. As we ad- 
vance in our course and are thrown more in contact 
with the Professors of the Senior years, we are at first 
surprised to see the small extent of space allotted to 
them in the new building. When we look around 
to find the apartment allotted to the Professor of 
Medicine, we confess ourselves defeated in the search. 
That for the Professor of Surgery, too, seems totally 
inadequate, while the Associate Professors of Obste- 
trics and Gynaecology have been relegated to an 
obscure corner in the old building. 

Yet, considering that didactic is giving place to 
clinical teaching, we see the reasonable explanation 
of this by looking to the rapid strides that have of 
late been made in general hospital facilities. There, 
General Medicine and Surgery and the special clinics 
all have ample scope for practical work and develop- 
ment along these lines, the Obstetrical department 



alone having derived no benefits from these improve- 
ments, and the Professor of this branch still labors 
under immense disadvantages. As students, we feel 
that were it not due to the almost gratuitous services 
and indefatigable energies of our Professor, Dr. Cam- 
eron, the course as laid down in the curriculum for 
this branch would not be such as to thoroughly equip 
men in this most important branch of our study. 

When one remembers how important an absolute 
knowledge of this subject is to every general practi- 
tioner, and that to a young man striving to build up 
a practice failure in this branch means almost certain 
neglect in those in which he may be competent, one 
is led to see how important a thorough training in 
this course becomes for his general success. And 
when women like the Countess of Aberdeen and Mrs. 
Ashley Carus-Wilson can become so intensely inter- 
ested in such a work as this, and draw enthusiastic 
crowds to listen to the well-learned eulogies of the 
Montreal Maternity — surely here would be a field for 
extension, philanthropic in its nature, and reflecting 
credit on the Faculty, not only as such, but in the fact 
that, by the increase of practical training that could 
be thus afforded, men more thoroughly competent to 
practise their profession in all its branches w r ould be 
the result. 

That this will prove the next step in the advance- 
ment of the Medical Faculty is much to be desired. 

However, still congratulating ourselves on the pre- 
sent facilities, and looking forward to the future, we 
wish for the same success and advancement to con- 
tinue in our Faculty in the future as has been mani- 
fested so abundantly in the past. 



W. W. Wickham, ’95, by a unanimous vote of the 
students, represented the Medical Faculty at the last 
dinner given by the Law Students. He declares that 
he enjoyed himself to the fullness of his heart and 

other viscera. • 

Although as yet we are only in the first week of Feb- 
ruary , and convocation for degrees does not occur 
until the 4th of April, let not the Final men be deluded 
by the apparent long time. As a matter of fact, their 
examinations commence with clinical obstetrics 
about the 13th inst. ; the hospital wards will close 
against them in about two weeks, and the other clin- 
ical examinations begin on the 4th of March. Con- 
sequently, we would advise them to be on the alert. 



EXCHANGES. 

JI e beg to remind our College contemporaries that 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



165 



exchanges should be sent to the Editor in Chief , 
McGill Fortnightly, care McGill University Li- 
brary. 

For some unknown reason, many of our exchanges 
for this issue have not reached us. We take much 
pleasure, however, in acknowledging those which lie 
before us. 

The Student is always welcome. It contains much 
college matter, which, though of a distinctly local 
character, cannot fail to be interesting because of the 
entertaining manner in which it is put. The joys 
and sorrows of University life are portrayed in a 
most graphic way, and appeal to students the world 
over. 

The Glasgow University Magazine has its usual 
bright editorials, and some very charming verses, 
notably “ Clear Shining after Rain.” 

Two clever stories, several short poems, and matter 
pertaining distinctly to the University of Vermont, 
combine in making the January number of the Uni- 
versity Cynic , a readable one. 

A plea for football, entitled “ Foot-ball not brutal,” 
in the Bowdoin Orient , will doubtless please all lovers 
of the game, while an urgent appeal to cultivate a 
taste for reading will be equally satisfactory to an- 
other class of its readers. 

The Owl for January contains high tributes to Sir 
John Thompson, in both poetry and prose, and a 
short but comprehensive resume of the life and writ- 
ings of William Cullen Bryant. Perhaps the most 
striking article in the paper is “A Modern Sham.’’ 
It deals justly, though severely, with the craze of 
Esoteric Buddhism, and after a brief statement of its 
beliefs asks a question which we echo : — “ Is it not 
strange to see in a Christian age, descendants of Euro- 
peans, enlightened and highly civilized through the 
influence of Christianity, seekingTrom the semi-bar- 
baric people of Asia, principles of philosophy, morals 
and theology ?” 

The University Monthly appears for the first time 
among our exchanges. It contains prose translations 
from Tourgeneff and Moliere, besides other matter, 
several poems, and the local references necessarily 
common to every college magazine. 

Among the many readable articles in Acta Victori- 
ana , we can only mention one concerning the late 
Robert Louis Stevenson, (evidently from the pen of 
one of his admirers), and a most interesting account 
of the triennial examinations held by the Chinese 
Government for the degree of M.A. From it we 
learn that men of all ages there compete for an M. A., 
while out of fifteen thousand who annually strive for 
a degree, not one hundred succeed in obtaining it. 

The Dalhousie Gazette presents its usual attractive 



appearance. The editorial “ About Valedictories ” 
deals with a problem, which, sooner or later, must 
come to every University, and we would be pleased 
to find a satisfactory solution of the difficulty. A 
criticism on Tennyson’s “ Maud,” and a well-written 
account of the women’s college of Bryn Mawr consti- 
tute the portions most interesting to outsiders, while 
much space is devoted to personal matter, evidently 
pleasing to the frequenters of Dalhousie. 



COLLEGE ITEMS. 

The University of Toronto now allows students 
writing for honours on the matriculation examination 
exemption from the pass papers. 



Emperor William of Germany has presented a 
trophy valued at 5,000 marks, to be competed for by 
the crews of the different German universities. 



In the all- America football eleven, as made up by 
the Boston Globe , Yale has four men, Harvard four ? 
and University of Pennsylvania three, with Hinkey 
as captain. 



The American College League will soon publish a 
monthly in New York City. It will be edited by a 
board of editors from the leading colleges of the 
country. 



President Eliot of Harvard, in a recent address 
advised students to thus apportion their time : Study 
ten hours. Sleep eight hours. Exercise two hours. 
Social duties one hour. Meals three hours. 



Since the death of Holmes there are only four sur- 
viving members of the class of 1829 of Harvard, 
namely, Dr. Edward L. Cunningham of Newport, 
R. I. ; the Rev, Samuel May (the class centenary), of 
Leicester ; the Rev. Samuel F. Smith of Newton, the 
author of “ America ; ” and Charles S. Storrow of 
Boston. 



READABLE PARAGRAPHS. 

Two students from the South were spending their 
holidays in Lerwick during the fishing season, and 
one of them, on seeing how cheaply the herring were 
being sold, was struck by a brilliant idea. Turning 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



1 66 



to an old fisherman, he said : “ It is very stupid of 
you, 1 think, to sell such herring at 50 for 6d. Why, 
if you take them down to London you could get is. 6d. 
a dozen for them easily ! ” The old fisherman scratched 
his head thoughtfully. “ Mun,” says he, “y’re right, 
ye mon be frae ane o’ the colleges, I suppose. It’s a 
wu nner it never struck me afore. An’ I’m j ist think- 
in’ if ye could j ist cart Loch Lomon’ doon tae Hell 
an’ sell it at a penny a mug-foo, ye’d mak ye’re fortune 
in sax weeks .” — Glasgow Univet sity Magazine. 



come to eat you !” roared the bogy. The naturalist 
eyed the animal with the unflinching and critical gaze 
of a scientific man. “ Horns,” he muttered to himself, 
“ hoofs and a tail. Graminivorous! Impossible!” — 
and, so saying, he turned upon his side and saw no 
more of the ridiculous and untruthful cow that night. 

— Distaff. 



A POETICAL SIGN BOARD. 

“ We won’t print any such stuff as that! ” said the i 
editor loftily, as he handed back the manuscript to j 
the ambitous gentleman from ’98. “ Well, you j 

needn’t be so haughty about it,” retorted the latter. ■ 
“\ou’re not the first one who wouldn’t print it.” 
And having thus squelched the editor, he walked out 
of the sanctum. — Ex. 



AC AD EM Y°^MUS/C 

HENRY THOMAS, Lessee and Manager. 



WEEK OF FEBRUARY 4th, 



A lady, after looking over the books on the counter 
at one of our bookstores the other day, stepped up to 
a clerk and asked : “ Have you ‘Cometh ’? ” “ ‘Cometh,’ 
ma’m ; I don’t know of any book by that name. ” “ Oh, 
don’t you ? Well, I saw a book here called ‘ Goethe,’ 
and I thought likely there was a companion book by 
the name of ‘ Cometh ’ V'— Boston Transcript. 



THANKFUL. 

“ I don’t see what makes people go to football games 
on Thanksgiving Day, ” remarked his wife. “ It 
hasn’t anything to do with the spirit of the occa- 
sion.” 

“ Oh, yes, it has, ” was the reply. “ I never went 
to a football game in my life that I didn’t feel tremen- 
dously thankful that I wasn’t one of the players.” 

The above goes very well with the experience of 
the little girl, who locked up the dog in a dark closet 
while the family were at church Thanksgiving day, 
so that he might be thankful when they came home 
and let him out. 



A BOGY. — On a certain festive occasion, a great 
French naturalist had dined not wisely but too well. 
When he retired to rest, his repose was troubled, and 
he dreamed a dream. It appeared to the slumbering 
naturalist that a sort of bogy entered the room, having 
something of the outward semblance of a cow. “ I’ve 



SPECIAL ENGAGEMENT OF 

The World's Greatest Mind Reader 

Prof. HARRY GALEF 

This Human Thought Magnet will appear in a series of 
Extraordinary Tests. 



NEXT ATTRACTION — . 

Beginning Monday, February 11th. 

THE BRILLIANT YOUNG COMEDIAN 

Mr. Charles Dickson 

In his repertoire of famous Comedy Successes. 



POPULAR PRICES 



