Vot. VJJJ. 



JVo. 7. 



McGILL 

UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 

Sunday , February \^th y 1885 . 



CONTENTS : 



Editorials 
Contributions 
McGill News 
College World - 



PAGE. 

3 

- 4-5 

6 

- 7-8 



Societies 

Correspondence - 
Between the Lectures 
Advertisements 



PAGE. 

9-10 

11 

- 12-13 

2, 14, 15, 16 



MONTREAL : 

printed by the burland lithographic company. 



1885. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



MSCM1STER, HUTCHINSON & WEIR, 

Barristers, Solicitors , &e„ 

132 St. James Street, 

MONTREAL. 

DONALD MACMASTER, Q.C. M. HUTCHINSON, B.C.L. 

R. S. WEIR, B.C.L. F. 8. McLENNAN. 



t& 



J iiiiuuiv, 

ADVOCATES, 



151 ST. STREET, 

Jtffon.'fcreal-, 

JL w. JWVIWW, 

^.ilvocate, ^arrifter ^ommi^iofter, ^c,, 

m ST. JAMES STEIET, 

MONTREAL. 



GREENSHIELDS, McCORKILL & GUERIN, 

ADVOCATES, 

JBnrrate, jUilarnaip, jltrfmiars, 

Chambers : Exchange Bank Building, 

102 ST. FRANCOIS XAVIER ST., 

MONTREAL, 



J. N. Greekshields. J. C. McCorkill. 



Edmond Guerin. 



_A_. PERIARD, 

Law Bookseller, Publisher, Importer 

And Legal Stationer, 

23 ST. JAMES STREET, 

(Near the Court House,) 

M O N T R E A L . 

J. J. GREAVES, 

importer of all kinds of 

V^ools, Joy?, Jewelry, ^tatio^ef^y, 

Fancy Goods, Wall Paper, Baby and Doll 
Carriages, Velocipedes, &c., &c. 

816 <& 1344 St. Catherine Street, 

MONTREAL. 

Picture Framing done on Reasonable Terms. 



HEADQUARTERS 

FOR 

list ImI?! 




DRYSDALE’S 

232 ST. TA-DVdES ST. 

MEHICAL WORKS, HOOKS USED IJS* ART COURSE. 
SCIEJYCE TEXT HOOKS , 

THE VARIOUS THEOLOGICAL TEXT BOOKS . 

Fnll assortment in stock & sullied at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books, Ac., Ac., 
-(>-BEST "VALUE IJST TOWN. — <>— 

Stylographic Pens, Anti- Stylo Pens and Students ’ 
Supplies a Specialty . 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 
232 St. Taiao.es Street, 

ALSO 

Branch Store: 1423 St. Catherine St. 

E.A.GBBTH. . 



IMPORTER OF 



W & 3 BM 

Briar and Meerschaum Pipes, 

SULTANS, KHEDIVES AND BEYS EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES IN BOXES OF 25. 

Tr^r Sfu.a.eaa.ts I£isture. 

Paces and other Cut Plugs from $1.00 upwards. 

1323 ST. CATHERINE ST„ QUEEN’S BLOCK. 



yi JA. MoTMAN 




ON, 




New Seale of Prices 

THIS YEAR 

^FOR STUDENTS,^ 

II Slams 11. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 

Vol. VIII.] McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, FEBRUARY 15th, 1885. [No. 7. 




Dl RECTORS. 

Jeffrey H. Burland, B. Ap. Sc., F.C.S., President . 
G. J. A. Thompson, Vice-President. 

G. C. Wright, B.A., Treasurer . 

H. S. McLennan, Secretary . 

G. C. Stephen. I H. V. Thompson, B. A. 

C. T. Williams. | T. W. Lesage. 

editors. 

•Henri A. Lefleur, B.A., Editor-in-Chief. 
Samuel Fortier. Assistant Editor-in- Chief . 

Guy F. Palmer. | Colin H. Livingstone. 

Thomas Haythorne, B.A. 

The University Gazette will be published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which 
rule no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 



question of the admission of women to the educational 
advantages of the university, and we but voice the 
sentiments of the large majority of McGill men — 
whether graduates or undergraduates — when we state 
that our faith in Principal Dawson has not wavered 
and that we believe he ever acts to the best of his 
ability in the interests of the university. It is, no 
doubt, true that differences of opinion will exist in 
future, as in the past, between the alumni and the 
Board of Governors but we trust that the opinions of 
the former will be kindly expressed and breathe a 
spirit of loyalty to their Alma Mater. 

Such a course will not, we think, divest the Gazette 
of the independent tone which has characterized it. 
Its columns will remain open to the expressions of 
needed reforms. All we ask is that these be given 
in a friendly manner and dictated by an honest mo- 
tive. 

This seems to be the only wise and just course to 
follow, for experience has taught us that little good is 
effected by harsh criticisms*. Let us not prove so un- 
grateful as to hold up to public ridicule the little 
blemishes of our great institution, but in love conceal 
them until by our earnest, faithful efforts they may be 
removed. Its interests and our own are too closely 
interwoven to warrant such proceedings. Of its fame 
in the past we are justly proud and we hope to share 
in the greater fame of its future. 



The K. 21 K., a society which which was started 
under comparatively favourable auspices, some six 
weeks ago, and was doing good work, came to an un- 
timely end in the early part of last week. The post 
mortem examination revealed as the probable cause of 
death a progressive pernicious anoemia. 

The diseased condition of the Society appears to 
have been to a general indifference and a lack of en- 
thusiasm among the majority of the members, com- 
plicated in the later stages by nervous symptoms 
occasioned by rumours of a disquieting nature con- 
cerning the attitude of the secret society blood-hounds, 
which were said to be on the society’s track. 

Looked at in a serious light the complete failure of 
such a modest effort to promote musical culture among 
the students of the University argues unfavourably for 
the success of more ambitious enterprises in the future. 
As a drowning man clings to a straw, we cling to the 



jE&itorials. 



As many of our readers know, the term of office of 
the editors appointed last fall expired at the annual 
meeting of the shareholders, held on the 2nd of Feb- 
ruary. At that meeting the members of the old staff 
were, with one exception, re-elected to conduct the 
paper throughout the remainder of the collegiate year. 
We regret that many have since resigned owing to 
pressure of work in preparing for the sessional exam- 
inations so that the burden has fallen upon the few 
who remain until the vacancies can be filled. 

It is not our purpose either to extol or censure the 
course pursued by the late staff* during the half of the 
session now closed. We cannot conscientiously ren- 
der praise, and have no desire to act the part of traitors 
by our censure, but wish to share the responsibility. 
This much we affirm — that we shall strive as much as 
lies in our power to heal the wounds made by late 
hostile criticisms against the governors of the univer- 
sity and more particularly against our esteemed Prin- 
cipal — Sir William Dawson. We feel that we dare 
not, even were we so inclined, abuse the trust com- 
mitted to us by calling in question the motives by 
which the man whom, of all others, students and 
citizens delight to honor, was actuated in regard to the 



4 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1885. 



hope that the issue of the long-expected song-hook 
will lend such a stimulus to the dormant musical talent 
of the University, as will lead to the establishment on 
a firm basis of a Glee-Club which shall he an honour 
to the University, and a source of pleasure and re- 
creation to the students. 



Hontributions. 



MRS. CARLYLE. * 

Jane Baillie Welsh, Jane Welsh Carlyle she after- 
wards called herself, belonged to a very old Scotch 
family rich in geniuses and in heroes. “ Several black- 
guards among them but not one blockhead that I ever 
heard of,” was the account of his kinsfolk given to 
Jane Welsh by her grandfather. Her father, Dr. 
Welsh, was descended from that most fanatical of old 
time Reformers, John Knox, who in speaking of Mary 
Stuart, always called her the modern Jezebel. Through 
her mother’s mother who was a Baillie, a somewhat 
noted family in Biggar County, Mrs. Carlyle was said 
to trace her ancestry back to one whose glorious name 
is for ever dear to the hearts of the Scotch people — 
Sir William Wallace. But this is one of those tra- 
ditions which it is very hard to authenticate and 
whose number is legion. Jane Welsh herself cared 
little or nothing for those vague fireside rumors of 
genealogical greatness, but later in life finding that her 
husband attached some importance to family distinc- 
tion she took a little more interest in them on his 
account. In neither branch had the family degenerated. 
Dr. Welsh was an eminent physician, esteemed alike 
for his medical skill as for his dignity and honesty, 
and Carlyle who could hardly bear his mother-in-law 
was' forced to acknowledge that she fell but little short 
of being a woman of genius, added to which she is de- 
scribed as being a model of elegance and beauty. 

This distinguished couple had but one child a 
daughter, born at Haddington in 1801, the heroine of 
our sketch. In childhood a brunette with large lustrous 
eyes, quick, lively and with much bodily energy, she 
regretted not being a boy and endeavored to con- 
sole herself as far as possible by learning Algebra and 
Latin and imitating the boys in their sports. She 
never by any chance passed through a gate like 
other girls, but jumped or climbed the fence as most 
convenient, and this habit she did not lose until a 
large girl. Long after her marriage when she found 
the carriage to return for the first time to the place 
where she had been so happy no one knew her, adver- 
sity not less than years had aged and worn her ; one 
of the villagers guessed her name on seeing her 
instinctively scale a fence. “It is Jeannie Welsh,” 
he cried, “ No other woman would jump a fence when 
she could go through a gate. You are Jeannie Welsh.” 

Her studies were brilliant. Her aptitude for the 
sciences was so remarkable that she was sent to the 
boys class, of which she soon became the head. She 
made great progress in Latin and the influence of 

* Summarized from a paper read before the University Literary 
Society, Nov. 1884. 



Virgil may be early traced in her character and con- 
duct. The harsh and exacting Calvinism of her rigid 
ancestor became mollified by the softer principles ot 
the Latin poets until it was finally dissolved and Jane 
Welsh came to see that it is a matter of but little im- 
portance whether a man believes this or that piovided 
his conduct be fair in the light of day. Not only did 
she discredit dogma, but she fell into what was con 
sidered by her friends a worse error. She doubted 
the virtue and importance of the observances of tire 
religion of which they were such strict adherents. It 
was too fine a point for her keen mind, very much 
alive to inconsistency, to see wherein lay the wrong in 
having a horse trot on Sunday when it was no harm to 
make him walk. I abstain from provoking anything 
like a religious discussion, but I commend her views 
on the subject of Sunday observance to those gentle- 
men who think that more legislation is desirable to en- 
force it. Who, for instance, are so good that they 
would not allow our streets to be watered on Sunday, 
but would force the unfortunate citizens to receive the 
dust in their mouths, noses, ears and eyes, while they 
themselves enjoy the fresh air ot some suburban villa. 
Jane Welsh thought for herself. Her kind heart and 
strong brain had forced from her eyes the scales ot 
bigotry and prejudice which the circumstances ot birth 
and surroundings had placed there and she viewed the 
world through the clear transparent light ot reason. 
This was a great grief to her advisers who said that she 
had become a sort of pagan but they perceived it too 
late for remedy. 

Fond of logic, she had a clear incisive faculty of see- 
ing through things, hating all that was “ make believe ” 
and “ sham.” She had good sense that almost amounted 
to genius, industrious and painstaking she worked 
eagerly at literature with the ambition of winning 
name and fame. Pretty and witty — she was just the 
sort of girl to be most dangerous to a susceptible young 
man. We have dilated on the virtues of our heroine, 
we must not be blind to her failings. Of a lively 
imagination and ready flow of language, she was much 
given to exaggeration and the petting which she had 
received had tended to foster what was naturally in- 
clined to be an obstinate, wilful and exceedingly irrit- 
able disposition. By no means free from personal 
vanity ; a true woman — she was fond alike of society, 
dress, flattery and flirtation. 

Such a girl was not wanting for lovers. For a time 
the admiration was all on one side but her hero came 
in the shape of the village school master, a son of the 
gods, superb and splendid, tall and graceful, with 
regular features ai d a musical voice ; a man of 
eloquence and learning. Small wonder that the friend- 
ship between teacher and pupil soon ripened into a 
warmer sentiment. But there had been a vague under- 
standing with another person ; it was not a definite 
engagement but she insisted that he must keep it. 
There had been some trial and a great scandal about 
some Scotch minister who had broken a promise of 
marriage, and Jane could not bear that there should 
be any such reproach cast upon the man whom she 
loved so well, she would give him up first. And he 
showed that he was worthy of her by his unflinching 
resolve to do without her. 



1885.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



5 



They did not know that an engagement to marry is 
made but to be sundered if need be ; it is but a trial 
trip before setting out on the unreturning voyage. So 
far from being binding it should yield to a word, to a 
wish, to a misgiving. Marriage alone is insoluble and 
to keep it so it is desirable that every engagement 
made before marriage should be as light as possible. 
But the fetters were forged which rivetted them to 
wretchedness, and obedient to the coarse commercial 
standard of his day and place Edward Irving turned 
aside from the woman he loved and perjured himself 
to one whom he did not love, and who was base enough 
to demand marriage in fulfilment of a contract. 

It was at this time that Carlyle appeared upon the 
scene — a misanthrope, a grumbler, a man of un- 
bounded selfishness and egotism ; but also of unswer- 
ving honesty and of talents too widely known to need 
comment upon. Devoted to literature, and conscious 
of his own abilities he considered that he had work to 
do in the world, he felt himself to be a man with a 
mission. At that time he had made but little progress 
with it, hampered by poverty and oppressed by the 
weight of evils, in great part the imaginings of his own 
discontented spirit. But he was persuaded that from 
the day he should marry that the nightmare, physical 
and moral which haunted him would vanish ; that he 
would enter a new man upon a new life. Jane Welsh 
was well provided with this world’s goods. He sought 
her with the tenacity of his peasant race. Though 
rebuffed, he persisted. First he dazzled her eyes with 
the glamor of an association of intellects and through 
it essayed to touch her heart. 

Jane did not easily yield. She was not so blind 
as not to perceive the disparity between his worldly 
position and her own, nor the many qualities which 
rendered him far from desirable for a husband. Few 
men would have persisted in what was apparently so 
hopeless a cause, but it was not love but a wife that 
Carlyle wanted. He did persist and he got one. 

It would be hard to imagine a greater contrast to 
Irving than was Carlyle, both in looks and in character. 
How could a woman who had loved one of these men 
transfer her affections to the other ? Jane Welsh took 
a great interest in this cynical school-master. She s3w 
before any one else suspected it that the ill-favoured 
youth would be a great man and she resolved to have 
an influence upon his destiny ; nevertheless, it was not 
by marriage that she proposed to accomplish it. How- 
ever fond of him she afterwards became — and we see 
many similar marriages — Carlyle could not in any way 
be called her second love. His resplendent intellect 
won her homage, his marked individuality piqued her 
somewhat flagging interest in life ; little by little she 
was attracted towards him by the force of a powerful 
will, by admiration of his genius, by a touch of vanity 
and ambition not inexcusable in so young a woman, 
but neve r by love. 

Carlyle established in his household a rule which 
rendered his wife but little better than a door-keeper — 
a menial. The slightest noise, the least worriment 
put his ideos to flight and rendered him incapable of 
working for several days. The measures which he 
took to obtain the desired quiet were at least effectual ; 
he kept alone day and night in his study and when 



taking exercise. “Few visitors or none,” had been his 
warning to his wife before their marriage. Not only 
did he want quiet in the house but out of doors ; one 
of Mrs. Carlyle’s chief occupations was to procure by 
persuasion or as best possible the “ removal” of all the 
chickens, parrots, dogs, cats, etc., whose unlucky stars 
had brought them within the neighborhood of her 
husband. It was no longer a case of association of 
intellects. She whose early ambition had been to be- 
come a novelist and whose talents not less than her 
industry would have admirably fitted her for that role y 
soon found that she had a very different place to fill. 
With keen wit, sound judgment, honest purpose, and 
a command of language at once figurative and forcible 
anything written by her could not fail to be enter- 
taining and beneficial. Had Carlyle encouraged in- 
stead of discouraged his wife in this direction we 
should have had a double reason for gratitude to him. 
But it was for him to write and study, for her to work 
and scrub. It seemed to him in the order of nature 
that she should make his bread and mend his boots ; 
men should have intellectual employment, women 
servile. Mrs. Carlyle accepted the division and dis- 
regarding the luxury to which she had been accustomed 
endeavored to realize his ideal of a wife. While he 
was working at his literary productions she did the 
household work, swept, cooked, baked, was tailor, 
carpenter, washerwoman, all to perfection, and without 
complaint. She ruined her health, but her grace and 
delicacy were never marred by the contact with grosser 
things and persons in which she was abased. Neither 
did she murmur when poverty and ill-health overtook 
her. She had resolved to be a meek-tempered wife, 
and she was also determined that whatever happened 
her husband should never write for money, and she 
kept her word. 

It cannot be expected that a woman should be happy 
in such a state of affairs. Certain philosophers say 
that true happiness consists in doing good to others. A 
man lost on a desert, parched with thirst, who gives 
his last drop of water to a wounded comrade may well 
feel a noble satisfaction in having accomplished his 
duty ; but to believe that he enjoys seeing another 
drink his water is an error. She knew this — she, who 
for years had given her life to him, who had never 
even said “thank you.” She rejoiced profoundly in 
his success, to which her resolution and unflagging ser- 
vice had largely contributed — and a share of whose 
glories fell over her ; she bore w r ith his ill-humors — 
but she was not happy. 

But if the first eighteen months of Mrs. Carlyle’s 
married life was an awakening, there were severer 
trials yet in store for her. They had a pleasant circle 
of friends in Edinburgh, not large but among the in- 
tellectual and literary people of the city ; but a demon 
of unrest seemed to possess her husband and in spite 
of her ill health, the protests of his friends and his 
own desires, this lovely and delicate woman was forced 
from the cheerful and distinguished society which her 
presence attracted there to be buried for seven years in 
the sour solitudes of a Scottish moorland — Craigen- 
puttock. Is not the name enough to condemn the 
place? London life must have been welcome indeed 
after this and the little house in which they established 



6 McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. [1885. 



themselves there after their return from Scotland, soon 
became the centre where the litterati of the city met. 
Darwin and Tennyson were amongst the number of 
Mrs. Carlyle’s admirers while Lord Jeffrey and Leigh 
Hunt were almost nightly visitors. Partly from confi- 
dence, partly from indifference this homage paid to 
his wife never troubled Carlyle, wrapped up as he then 
was in some of his greatest works. 

But a severer test yet was now awaiting her. Her 
husband had become one of the lions of the day and 
his attentions to Lady Ashburton set off against his 
long neglect, indifference and harshness to her, caused 
his wife acute distress. This was the coup-de-grace . 
Despair overpowered her. The works of kindness 
which she had done ever since her marriage crowded 
upon her and turned to gall. The past was spoiled by 
the present. The innumerable sacrifices accomplished 
with smiles and soon forgotten now came back to 
memory. Positive discord reigned where previously 
all had been submission on her part. For both a great 
shadow was cast over the years during which they had 
lived together. 

But the trouble was brought suddenly to an end by 
the death of Lady Ashburton. Carlyle was not the 
man to make up quarrels, but it was his one drop of 
consolation after his wife had been taken from him, 
that during the last few months preceeding her death 
he had seemed to arouse from his lethargy and to 
feel for her a thrill of natural pity, to show to her 
somewhat of a husband’s sympathy. The excruciating 
agonies which she suffered sank into the deep places 
where abode his soul. Hear the end of 1863 an acci- 
dent while getting into her carriage, hastened an. evil 
of which the doctors were ignorant, and in the follow- 
ing April, her husband was rudely awakened to the 
consciousness of what he had lost, and he who had 
been so long blind now saw with more than common 
distinctness. The knowledge of all that his wife had 
suffered and borne for him together with the sense of 
his own shortcomings flooded upon him, and over- 
whelmed him with grief and remorse. 

Much has been written and will yet be written about 
the domestic troubles of Carlyle and his wife, and 
critics have be§n inclined to take one side or the other 
and, like paid advocates, to represent all the facts in 
favor of their own particular views and to conceal 
everything adverse to the position which they take. 
Such is not our plan. It is only natural that one’s 
sympathies should be with the weaker party, but we 
must not allow these to prevail too far and let our 
hearts get the better of our brains. We ought not to 
be too hard upon Carlyle. He was no ordinary man 
and is not to be judged by the rules applicable to one. 
He felt that his duty lay in his work and that to the 
latter every thing must be sacrificed, although we are 
free to admit that his exactions by no means ended 
there. His wife would gladly have played a more 
important part in their united lives than that which he 
assigned to her, but her devotion to his work as well 
as to him caused her to accept the situation without 
murmur. We need not eulogize. The story of her 
life has spoken far more plainly of her virtues than 
could any praise which we might bestow. Her faults 
were few and easy to forgive. In all her relations she 



left little to be desired — a dutiful daughter, a faith- 
ful friend, a prudent and devoted wife, a noble woman ; 
her talents deserved a wider field of exercise, her vir- 
tues merited a happier life. 

C. J. Brooke. 



JftciBill News. 



The Faculty of Arts have decided to award a gold 
medal to the student who stands first in the examina- 
tion for the ordinary degree of B.A., provided he shall 
have secured a first class in four out of the seven de- 
partments and have passed not lower than second class 
in the other three. Ho honour students can compete, 
nor any who have taken professional exceptions. 



McGill’s Hew Song Book. 

As a good deal of impatience has begun to manifest 
itself &mong the students with regard to this work, a 
few pertinent facts may hot only be of interest, but 
serve to convince the subscribers that a volume of 
songs is being provided for them at the cost of much 
time, labour, and skill, gratuitously contributed by 
gentlemen who are ambitious, not so much to win their 
thanks as to produce a book that will reflect credit 
upon the institution whose name it bears. 

The work of the compilation committee is now al- 
most finished. All the music and songs have been 
finally revised and corrected. A well-known and 
thoroughly reliable publisher has been engaged, and in 
a few days the MSS. will be consigned to the printer. 
Though some delay must necessarily attend the read- 
ing and correcting of proofs, still it is earnestly hoped 
by the members of the two committees that the book 
may be ready for circulation before the close of the 
present session. 

As to the matter of the book, none will have cause 
to complain. Among the many original songs, com- 
posed especially for this edition, is one from the pen 
of Dr. Frechette — our distinguished poet laureate — 
with music by Mr. Pigon, of Paris. Songs have also 
been contributed by Wm. McLennan, B.C.L. : Dr. 
Harrington, Professor Moyse, Arthur Weir, W. H. 
Evans, Fred. Harkin, and many others. 

During the session the compilation committee has 
met once every week, and has laboured most indefeti- 
gably and with unabated enthusiasm. It will scarcely 
be possible for those ignorant of like tasks to estimate 
the amount of work performed. The committee, how- 
ever, will consider themselves amply repaid for their 
trouble, if they shall have succeeded in supplying a 
long-felt want, and will be highly gratified if, in the 
least, their labors shall merit the appreciation of the 
students and graduates of McGill. 



We hasten to the aid of the unfortunate Freshmen 
in Science. It appears a number of them absented 
themselves from lectures On Tuesday, Wednesday and 
Saturday of Carnival week and are now threatened to * 
be fined $2.00 each by the faculty. 

It is to be regretted that the Freshies did not learn 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



7 



1885.] 



earlier that Sciencemen are forbidden to do what stu- 
dents in Arts and Medicine can accomplish with 
impunity. This is one of the unrevealed mysteries of 
Science. 

We are sorry that a misunderstanding has arisen to 
mar in any degree the good feeling that has always 
existed between the professors and students of this 
faculty. The Freshmen are, without doubt, in fault, 
and we have only to refer them to articles 2 and 3, 
page 39 of the Calender to show them that they may 
be legally fined. 

Much more, however, might be urged against such 
harsh treatment. This is their first offence — it was 
carnival week — many did not know that Sciencemen 
never slope — it was not, they affirm, an organized 
slope. (G. S.). 

In consideration of all these, they are to be com- 
mended to the mercy of the Faculty. The imposing 
of fines is, to say the least, at variance with modern 
methods of maintaining order in institutions of learn- 
ing, and more properly belongs to the 17th and 18th 
centuries in which it flourished as the ally of the 
birchen rod and cat-o'-nine-tails. 

Freshmen, we beg of you to be men — not boys, to 
act manly and to conduct yourselves in such a manner 
as to prevent the authorities from dragging this ancient 
miserable custom from out of the semi-barbarism and 
despotism af centuries past into the intelligence and 
freedom of the present age. 

At Harvard, nearly two hundred years ago they had 
a schedule of fifty-five offences punishable by penalties 
varying from twopence, for absence from prayers, to 
two pounds ten shillings, for absence from town for a 
month. If a man was absent from recitation it cost 
him Is. 6d. ; if he got drunk, the penalty was no 
greater. When a student went to meeting before the 
bell rung he was fined 6d. 

The fine for graduates for playing cards was 5s., but 
undergraduates got oft’ by paying 2s. 6d. And so we 
might continue the list. The following amusing inci- 
dent appeared some time ago in a Harvard journal in 
reference to these old times : 

“ Dr called upon a Southern student one 

morning in the recitation room to define logic. The 

question was in this form. ‘ Mr. , what is 

logic I * Ans. ‘ Logic, sir, is the art of reasoning.' 

‘ Ay ; but I wish you to give the definition in the 
exact words of the learned author .' ‘ 0, sir, he gives 

a long, intricate, confused definition, with which I did 
not think proper to burden my memory.' ‘ Are you 
aware who the learned author is ? ' * Oh, yes ! Your 

honor, sir.' ‘Well, then, I fine you one dollar for dis- 
respect.' Taking out a two dollar note, the student 
said, with the utmost sang froid, 4 If you will change 
this, I will pay you on the spot.' ‘ I fine you another 
dollar,' said the professor, empathically, ‘ for repeated 
disrespect.’ ‘ Then, 'tis just the change, sir,' said the 
student, coolly.” 



Probably no one so fully realizes the hollowness of life and 
human ambition, as the man who ladles a spoonful of horse- 
radish into his mouth, under the impression that it is ice 

cream. 



HARROWING. 

Wc sat upon yon mossy bank. 

The troubled world was all forgot ; 

The blinking stars peeped out, then sank, 

In halo ’round the moon’s bright spot. 

The gentle breath of nature fanned 
The locks from off my brow, 

The thrilling touch of her fair hand, 

Alas 1 I feel it now ! 

" Oh, sweet, my love, be mine,’' I cried, 

** My treasures, love, abode—” 

She screamed and bitted from my side, 

*' Oh,— oh— that— horrick-toad ! ” 

In Tech . E. PlTHET. 



College UJorlfc. 



Columbia has graduated 85,000 men since its foun- 
dation. 

The University of Cairo is said to be 900 years older 
than Oxford. 

The new elevator at Vassar is not much used, as the 
girls prefer to slide down the banisters. 

It is estimated that nine-tenths of the college men in 
the United States are Republican.— Ex. 

The Athanseum disapproves of the projected scheme 
of University consolidation in Nova Scotia. 

University of Virginia has sixteen fraternity chap- 
ters, the largest number of any college in the United 
States. 

“ The best school of journalism in the world,” said 
Chas. F. Thwing, “ is the editorial board of a college 
paper.” 

At Harvard work on the college papers is accepted 
as a substitute for the regular literary work of the 
university. 

There are twenty-one editors connected with the 
Harvard Daily Crimson , either in an editorial or 
business capacity. 

The total valuation of the property of Harvard 
College which yields an income is estimated to be 
about five million dollars. 

Over one thousand students have been expelled 
from the University of Kieff, in Russia, and drafted 
into penitentiary regiments. 

The Professor of Anatomy in Edinburgh University 
is paid $16,000 a year. The heads of the departments 
in Latin and Mathematics recive §17,500 per annum. 

The United States prints more than half of the 
journals of the world ; and, according to Ayer, 168 
college publications, a feature of journalism scarcely 
known outside of the United States. 

Of eight of the principle colleges, the only one 
strongly advocating a protective tariff is the University 
of Pennsylvania. At Williams, Yale, Harvard, Am- 
herst and others, the free trade theory is taught. 

A piece of sponge cake made by a Vasser girl has 
been presented to President-elect Clevelany. It is 
said that Mr- Cleveland prizes it highly, bnn will use 
it as a paper weight when he goes to the White House. 



8 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1885 . 



Peterhouse College, the oldest of the seventeen 
colleges in Cambridge University, England, has just 
celebrated the six hundredth anniversary of its found- 
ing. It was founded in the reign of King Edward I. 
— Crimson . 

“A college journal is the pulse by which the 
faculty may determine the condition of the student.” 
The college journal must be wholly independent of 
the faculty, if it would perform its legitimate function. 
— Dickinson Liberal . • 

Looking through the University Gazette, of McGill 
College, we notice that the ladies of that institution 
have passed their first examination in a very fine man- 
ner. We heartily congratulate them on their success. 
May they stand as well in the future. — Cynic . 

Queen’s College. — The Artsmen are debating the 
advisability of holding annual dinners, which, it seems, 
have not been in vogue hitherto. Nothing can be more 
laudable than the attempt to establish this custom 
which has done so much to harmonize the classes in 
McGill. 

It has been calculated that Vassar College girls eat 
5,200 pancakes every morning. This is equal to 
1,889,000 pancakes a year, which, with an average 
diameter of five inches, would extend 302 miles 
a straight line ; or they could be built into a single 
column nearly eight miles high. 

More than fifty per cent, of the students in all de- 
partments of the four leading American Universities 
are said to be avowed Agnostics, and, it is added, the 
percentage is even higher in some of the less prominent 
institutions. We don’t know who is responsible for 
these figures and are inclined to doubt their correct- 
ness. In Canada at all events infidelity has not nearly 
so strong a hold. — Queen's College Journal. 

University Federation in Ontario. — The Acta 
Victoriana after dealing somewhat at length with this 
subject concludes by stating that it sees no grievous 
hindrance, so far as the interests of Victoria are con- 
cerned, to the culumination of the scheme. Queen's 
College Journal , on the other hand, takes exception to 
the project chiefly on the ground that Toronto Univer- 
sity will not be the degree granting institution but also 
the rival of the united colleges and will thus tend to 
absorb them or deprive them of their individual im- 
portance. 

The Illini defends its course in giving politics a 
place in its columns, and maintains that precedence 
should not in this reference be tamely followed, still, 
we think, however praiseworthy it may be that col- 
legians should participate in the great political ques- 
tions of the day, we fail to see how college journalism 
can be benefitted by entering upon such discussions, 
the result would be in the majority of cases disastrous 
not only to the papers themselves, which cannot re- 
main perfectly independent, but to the harmony of 
feeling among the students, who are their patrons. 

That students and particularly Freshmen enjoy 
more priveleges now than formerly may be seen from 
a perusal of some of the rules in force at Harvard 200 
years ago : — 



“ The scholars shall never use their mother tongue, 
except that in public excercise or oratory, or such like, 
they be called to make it in English. 

“ None shall pragmatically intrude or intermeddle 
in any other men’s affairs. 

“ No scholar shall buy, sell or exchange anything, to 
the value of six-pence, without the allowance of his 
parents, guardians or tutors. 

“ No scholar whatever, without the foreacquaintance 
of the president and his tutor, or, in the absence of 
either of them, two of the fellows, shall be present at 
or in any of the public civil meetings, or concourse of 
people, as courts of justice, elections, fairs, or at mili- 
tary exercise, in the time or hours of the college exer- 
cise, public or private. Neither shall any scholar ex- 
ercise himself in any military band, unless of known 
gravity, and of approved sober and virtuous conversa- 
tion, and that with the leave of the president and his 
tutors. 

“ No Freshman shall wear his hat in the college 
yard unless it rains, hails or snows, provided he be on 
foot and have not both hands full. 

“ Freshmen are to consider all the other classes as 
their seniors. 

“ No Freshman shall speak to a senior with his hat 
on ; or have it on in a senior’s chamber, or in his own 
if a senior be there. 

“ All Freshmen shall be obliged to go on any errand 
for any of his seniors, graduates or under-graduates, at 
any time except in study hours, or after nine o’clock in 
the evening.” 

According to the report of the “ Yale Field Cor- 
poration,” the now athletic grounds still need a further 
expenditure to put them in good condition. Up to date 
$53,184.25 has been spent and $1 0,000 more is needed. 

Mr. Moody is planning the establishment of a great 
training school for city lay missionaries in Chicago. 
The sum of $250,000 is to be raised for land and build- 
ings and an endowment fund. 

The number of educational institutions, public and 
private, in the colony of New South Wales, including 
the University, is 2315, with 4543 teachers and 189,- 
983 students and scholars, the average annual cost ex- 
ceeding 30s. per head of population. This does not 
include technical classes, schools of art, etc. The 
number of churches and chapels belonging to the 
various religious denominations in the colony is 1521, 
representing 247,383 sittings. The average attendance 
is 202,059, which, with an average attendance of 
41,310 at temporary or irregular places of worship, 
makes a total of 243,369, or about a quarter of the 
whole population of the colony. The number of 
ministers is 770, their salaries and allowances amount- 
ing to nearly £13,000. 

The Maine Supreme Court decides in regard to 
college students voting in the college town : “ The 

presumption is against a student’s right to vote, if he 
comes to college from out of town. Calling it his 
residence does not make it so. He may have no right 
to so regard it. Believing the place to be his homo 
is not enough. There may be no foundation for the 
belief. Swearing that it is his home must not be 
regarded as sufficient, if the facts are averse to it.” 



1885.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



9 



A list has been prepared of the members of the last 
graduating class at Yale and their future occupations. 
Of these 4G are reading law, 27 are teaching, 19 are 
in business, 13 are continuing their studies, 12 are 
reported without occupation, 5 are studying theology, 
2 are studying medicine, 2 are engaged in newspaper 
work, 1 is “ranching” and several are travelling. 

A despatch from Rome says the offer of Miss Cald- 
well of Virginia to give $300,000 to found a Catholic 
University at New York, similar to the College of the 
Propaganda Fide at Rome, has been submitted to the 
pope. His Holiness intends to confer a signal mark 
of distinction upon the lady. 

There are in the Lehigh University 307 students 
from twenty-three States and countries. They are 
divided by classes into 17 post-graduates, 22 seniors, 
44 juniors, 70 sophomores, 131 freshmen, 13 in the 
new course in advanced electricity, 10 special students. 
There are on the teaching force twenty-seven professors 
and instructors for every branch of learning, among 
them many men of celebrity. The new laboratories 
are completed, and are the finest and most perfect of 
any in this country, and are fully equal to any in the 
world. 

Hon. Thomas A. Hendricks of Indiana, Vice Presi- 
dent elect, has consented to deliver the annual address 
before the Yale alumni and graduating classes at com- 
mencement, June 23, 1885. 

Hazing at Union College is over for this year. Four 
sophomores were detected in the act of placing a fresh- 
men on a Chinese idol standing behind the College, 
and were promptly suspended, but were reinstated on 
condition that each one in the class would sign an 
agreement not to do any more hazing. 

There are 23 Smiths at Harvard, and 15 at Yale. 

Work has been begun an a magnetic observatory at 
Cornell. 

Of the 586 students in the Yale academical depart- 
ment, 221 are from New England. 

H. A. Garfield has been elected class orator, and 
his brother class marshall, at Williams. 

They are only two American Universities which 
include music in their regular curriculum for the 
bachelor’s degree — Harvard and Michigan. 

Copies of the best examination papers handed in at 
the recent semi-annuals at Minnesota University are 
to be sent to the New Orleans Exposition. 

Dr. August Hjalmar Edgren, professor of modern 
languages in the Royal University of Sweeden, has 
accepted a similar position in the State University of 
Nebraska, and will enter upon his duties there about 
April 1st. He is a veteran of the war of the Rebellion 
and a Yale graduate, and for some years taught modern 
languages at his alma mater 

If a pretty girl’s mouth is an osculating circle, is kissing it 
a method of differential calculus ? 

While returning from school one muddy day, Tommy fell 
into the gutter, with the result that it was rather hard to 
decide which was mud and which was Tommy. When he 
arrived home, the following dialogue occurred : Tommy : 

« B-o-o-o-o 1 I’ve fallen down 1 ” Ma : « You bad boy ! In 
those new knickerbockers, too • ” Tommy (never at a loss 
for an excuse) : “ B-o-o-o-o ! I hadn’t time to take them off when 
I felt myself going.” 



Societies. 



K.-21-K. 

The weekly meeting of this society was held on 
Tuesday, Feb. 10th, at 5 p.m. Seven members only 
were present, and after choir practice it was unani- 
mously decided that in view of the meagre attendance 
of members it would be advisable to dissolve the 
society. 

McGill Medical Society. 

After a rather prolonged absence of reports from 
this Society it is a matter of regret that the secretary 
could not furnish a moro interesting recount of the 
meeting of the society held on Saturday, Feb. 7th. 

The programme was to have consisted of a Case Re- 
port by Mr. Corsan, and a paper on “ Primary Calculi” 
by Dr. Ruttan. As neither of the gentlemen men- 
tioned put in an appearance, the latter being unwell 
the meeting had to fall back upon volunteers whose 
efforts it appears were not worth recording. 

Maritime Association. 

The last regular meeting for the present session was 
held on Wednesday evening, the 4th inst., when the 
Vice-President, Mr. C. H. Livingstone, occupied the 
chair. The chief business transacted was the appoint- 
ment of a committee, composed of Messrs. R. E. 
Palmer, Boggs and the Chairman to confer with au- 
thorities of all the eastern-going railways on matters of 
special importance. So far the Society has made ar- 
rangements along with other things that the baggage 
of Maritime students travelling via Portland Me., will 
be free from Customs inspection. 

Undergraduate’s Literary SociETY. 

A meeting worthy of the palmiest days of the So- 
ciety was that of the 6th inst. There was a good at- 
tendance, and Mr. N. P. Yates, First Vice-President, 
occupied the chair. After an interesting paper on the 
“ Future of Gold and Silver,” from Mr. J. H. Bell, an 
amusing reading from “ Texas Siftings ” was given by 
Mr. Alex. McLennan. The debat ' was then proceeded 
with, being “ Resolved that Science is preferable to 
Classics as the Basis of a Liberal Education,” Messrs. 
E. P. Mathewson, McOuat and Patton supporting the 
affirmative, and Messrs. Colquhoun, F. Pedley, and J. 
P. Gerrie the negative. The subject, one with which 
the Society has wrestled before, was probably sug- 
gested by Dr. Harrington’s recent address in favor of 
scientific study, and this lent additional vim to the 
arguments of the advocates of science, who upheld 
their side of the question with remarkable ability. 
Referring to the value of classical instruction in giv- 
ing one a command of English, Mr. Patton pointed out 
some of the faults which often marked the writings 
and speeches of those thus educated, particularly in 
accuracy of statement, and a power to make “the 
worse appear the better reason.” Mr. McQuat took 
the term science in the widest sense, and pointed out 
how useful and thorough a training could be obtained 
from the departments of knowledge which he could 
thus group together. Notwithstanding the shelter of 



10 McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. [1885. 



this very broad mantle for the negative side, Mr. Ped- 
ley, in a speech marked by careful thought and felici- 
tous expression, dispelled many of the illusions which 
the votaries of science were accustomed to pride them- 
selves upon, and contended that inasmuch as science 
left untouched the realm of the imagination, as it was 
bound to stick to fact and matter, it could never be 
made the basis of a liberal education. The vote re- 
sulted in a narrow majority for the negative side. 

Zeta Psi. 

The following account of the last convention of this 
society is taken from the Tuftonian and will be of 
interest : — 

“ The thirty-eighth annual convention of the Zeta 
Psi fraternity met at the Continental Hotel, Philadel- 
phia, January 8 and 9. Delegates were present from 
each of the twenty chapters of the fraternity, together 
with many alumni, among whom were several Profes- 
sors of the University of Penn., Hon. C. A. Sumner, 
member of Congress from Cal., Judge Sumner of Mass., 
Rev. J. F. Dripps, D.D., of Emanuel Episcopal 
Church, Philadelphia, and many others prominent in 
business, politics, and the learned professions. 

The business sessions presided over by the Phi Al- 
pha, Liberty E. Holden, were well attended, and a 
great amount of important business transacted. The 
various chapter reports showed the constant growth in 
power and influence of the fraternity. 

The theatre party on the eve of January 8, extended 
to the Grand Chapter by the Elders of the entertain- 
ing Chapter, the Sigma of the University of Penn., — 
was followed by a collation at the Zeta Psi rooms. 

Friday evening the annual oration was given by 
Hon. Wm. McMichael, followed by the banquet which 
was largely attended and thoroughly enjoyed. 

Following are the Grand Officers for the ensuing 
year, viz : — 

Phi Alpha, Hon. G. S. Duryee ; Alpha Phi Alpha, 
F. H. Culver; Sigma Alpha, L. E. Malone; Alpha 
Sigma Alpha, Gustavus Remak, Jr. ; Gamma Alpha, 
C. B. Eyerson ; Sigma Rho Alpha, A. D. Maxwell ; 
Della Alpha, F. H. Bowen. 

The delegates from the Kappa were R. A. White, 
Harry Holden, I. W. Crosby, A. C. Wellington. 

The thirty-ninth Convention will be held at Mon- 
treal with the Alpha Psi Chapter, McGill University.” 

Undergraduatel Literary Society. 

Nowithstanding a no less interesting subject for de- 
bate than “ Resolved that the British Government is 
responsible for the fall of Khartoum,” the pihce de 
resistance of the programme on Friday, Feb. 13th, was, 
undoubtedly, the paper entitled “ Dreams,” by Mr. 
H. W. Chalmers. Without indulging in many philoso- 
phical reflections on these mental phenomena, Mr. 
Chalmers devoted his attention to one particular 
dream, experienced a short time ago, and presumably 
brought on by an attack of “ undergraduates dinner.” 
He thought he revisited, ten years hence, the halls of 
his Alma Mater , and beheld the remarkable changes 
which a decade had wrought in old McGill. These 
he narrated with such vividness as to induce the belief 



that the dreamer had attained to something of pro- 
phetic strain. Following this came a reading by Mr. 
T. Pritchard, when the debate above mentioned was 
taken up. Messrs. G. F. Calder, H. Mason and A. 
Bryan supported the affirmative side, and Messrs. F. 
W. Hibbard, H. Pedley, and C. Kingston the negative. 
The discussion was satisfactory, though the question 
turned too much upon the accuracy or inaccuracy of 
telegrams, and other communications received from the 
Soudan during the last year. For instance one speaker 
very properly pointed out that we had then no certain 
knowledge of the fall of Khartoum or the death of 
General Gordon. The speakers, too, ventured very 
little into the realm of how far any responsible govern- 
ment should be blamed for disasters to the national 
arms, disasters which all the facts now made public, 
do not possibly indicate, could have been averted. In 
other respects, the debate was a good one, and the feel- 
ing of the audience very evenly divided, the question 
being decided in favor of the negative side by a ma- 
jority of one vote. The society adopted a motion of 
Mr. A. P. Solandt to have a critic appointed at each 
meeting, who at the conclusion of the programme 
shall point out the features, good or bad, of each item 
which he considers worthy of remark. By this it is 
hoped to correct many mistakes in language and faults 
in manner, which would pass unnoticed by those 
who unwitingly indulge in them. 

Hockey. 

The Hockey season may now be said to be at an end. 
The spirit formerly given to this finest of Canadian 
winter sports by our boys, seems to have been chan- 
nelled off to the approaching examinations — at least so 
I think we must interpret our attendance of only four 
at our last practice. It is now, therefore, fitting to 
give a synopsis of the work done by our team in the 
session’s campaign. 

Four battles have been fought — Victories, two — de- 
feats, two — killed, none — wounded, everyone. A short 
record of the several engagements is as follows : First 
we met in a practice match the Montreal Football 
Hockey Club ; the struggle was a severe one, but the 
team play observed by our men told in our favour, and 
gave us the victory by two goals. 

In our next match ther scene of action was changed 
from the Crystal Rink, where we are at home, to the 
Victoria Rink, where, on a larger sheet of ice, and 
under a mixed light of gas and electricity, we found 
ourselves quite out of our element ; to these causes we 
assign the rather bad beating the M. A. A. Hockey 
Club dosed us with ; in short, not to dwell on the 
unpleasant topic, we fought badly, got demoralized 
and fell. The defeat did us little us harm, however, 
for we went to work in our following practices with 
that firm resolve to make ourselves what we were 
capable of becoming — the fittest steel in the city, and 
when we met in force and bloody battle, the Crystal 

Hockey Club, we were not found wanting. Score 2 

to 0. 

The story of our failure to win the Carnival Cham- 
pionship Trophy is still on every lip— what need, 

| then, to repeat it. “ Hard lines” seems to cover the 



1885.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



11 



ground. The match, which was with the M. A. A. 
Hockey Club, was altogether in our own hands, cer- 
tainly at least in the first half-hour of play, in which 
time a goal scored by our side, and not seen by the 
Umpire, was not allowed us. Our gallant defence 
was broken through but once when the only game 
scored against us was taken — Sic fata resolvunt. 

This shortly is the story of our day of ’84 — ’85. A 
fairly brilliant one, you will allow. The heroes of 
the above-mentioned contests are follows: Kinloch 
(Capt.), Elder (point, Brown, Budden, Johnson, 
Stevens, Palmer, Wilde, Kirkpatrick. The recruits 
are numerous — the roll giving answer to 45 — Hockey 
at McGill is alive. 



itorrespon&ence. 



To the Editors of the McGill College Gazette : 

Dear Sirs, — I desire to call attention through your 
columns to the gross injustice which the opening edi- 
torial in your last number does those editors of the 
Gazette whose apology it purports to be. This in- 
justice consists, to be brief, in the identification by 
Mr. Turner (the sole author of the article in question) 
of the {< we ” in that article with his assistant editors, 
a misrepresentation which will surprise those of your 
readers who have before believed that the editorial 
portion of this journal is the* joint and combined ex- 
pression of opinion of all its editors. In how false a 
position, therefore, Mr. Turner’s “ apology” places his 
colleagues will be seen, when it is understood that he 
was the sole member of the staff not only to hold the 
opinions which the past few numbers of The Gazette 
have adopted, but even to have any sympathy for 
them. 

For some time past it was seen by his assistant edi- 
tors that Mr. Turner’s views and their own as to the 
scope and object of a college journal were widely at 
variance, and the appearance in an early number of The 
Gazette of an article that had been published without 
the knowledge of any editor save Mr. Turner, led to 
some openly-expressed remonstrance at such a course, 
and to the agreement upon the latter gentleman’s part 
that no further article of an editorial nature should 
appear in these pages save by and with the consent of 
a majority of the editors. 

This agreement Mr. Turner failed to observe. The 
editorials in the last two numbers of The Gazette 
gained admission into its columns not only without 
the consent of the majority of editors, but without even 
the knowledge of a single member of the staff. 

That these charges are grave I am aware ; that they are 
equally true I am no less confident. My only reason 
for calling attention to the breach of faith implied in 
them has been my reluctance to allow to pass unchal- 
lenged the only obvious inference to be drawn from a 
perusal of “ The Editor’s Apology. 

I am, very truly yours, 

X. 



Editors McGill Gazette : — 

Sirs. — The session in Medicine is now drawing to a 
close and we are beginning to count the number of 
weeks which still remain to us before our dreaded ex- 
aminations commence, consequently I hope you will 
not think these remarks out of place. 

Of all the subjects which a primary student takes 
up, the most formidable is Anatomy, and this for two 
reasons. 

First, because of the magnitude of the subject, and 
the great difficulty in retaining a vivid picture of the 
parts in the memory, and, second, because students 
nearly always have a superstitious fear of the Practical 
Anatomy examinations. 

They hand down traditions from one year to the 
next of what extraordinary manoeuvres the examiners 
have recourse to in order to puzzle the students. How 
one man was asked to which side belonged a “ stapes” 
and a “ malleus.” How another was required to put a 
decapitated “ fibula” in its right position, and expected 
to spot the isolated “ spine ” of an “ innominate ” bone, 
forgetting all the while that such questions are not 
only exceedingly rare, but also were in all probability 
asked in order to make some distinction between the 
honor men of the class and from them alone expected. 
It is not, however, against the examination in Practical 
Anatomy that I wish to raise my voice, but against the 
manner of conducting it. It is this that seems so 
manifestly ridiculous. Students are required to study 
in the dissecting room for two years before they are 
considered eligible for examination. But the exam- 
iners pretend to be able to tell in ten minutes whether 
the student does or does not know the whole of the 
vast subject, which it has taken him two sessions of 
hard work to master, and not only to find out whether 
he knows sufficient for a mere pass, but actually to 
rank him according to his merits. True, there is a 
written descriptive examination, but some men cannot 
describe that which they know well, and how much of 
such a subject can the examinee describe in that time ? 

The evils of this system are very great. It not only 
maintains a great strain on the student, who is looking 
forward for weeks, perhaps months, to the dreaded ten 
minutes of examination, but it sometimes renders them 
so nervous as to totally incapacitate them for answer- 
ing even the simplest questions. In fact, I don’t 
doubt that the examiners have to make a large allow- 
ance for attacks of “aphasia” during the examination. 
However, it would be little use to point out this hete 
noir , which I am sure the examiners must appreciate 
as well as we do, without suggesting out what seems to 
me to be the most obvious remedy for it. In the first 
place I would like to ask, what are the “grinds” 
through the session intended for ? The calendar an- 
swers, in order to satisfy the demonstrator that each 
student knows the work as he dissects it. Well; if 
the demonstrator is satisfied, as is attested by his in- 
itials on the card of each qualified student, what need 
is there of the ten minutes’ farce at the end of the 
session ? 

The reason is that when a demonstrator comes to 
grind the students he asks two or three questions and 
then appends his initials to their card without know- 



12 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1885. 



ing the actual extent of each student’s knowledge. But 
if this were changed, and if instead of two or three 
questions a regular examination were held for each batch 
of students for each part as they dissected it, and the 
demonstrator were to mark each student according as he 
answered, and if the total number of marks attained 
by each man were to constitute his standing at the 
end of the session, I think it would not only be better 
for the students, (for they would know their work bet- 
ter and it would stop that most reprehensible system of 
cramming up everything at the last,) but also it would 
relieve the demonstrators of what must be a most irk- 
some and tedious task, that of conducting an examina- 
tion for hour after hour, and racking their brains for 
some new question to ask some forty or fifty miserable 
victims to a bad system. 

No one, not even the demonstrators themselves, pre- 
tend to remember the minutical of anatomy for any 
length of time, and, therefore, it seems to me to be only 
reasonable that if a student has known his arm or leg 
thoroughly at a previous examination through the 
session that he should not have to cram up all the fine 
points again at the end of the term (when he should 
be reading Materia Medica and Physiology), in order 
that, if the examiner pulls out of his pocket a “ second 
metacarpal ” bone, or shows him the “ musculo-cuta- 
neous ” nerve on Peter’s foot, he may be able to spot 
them without hesitation. 

A Student. 



Between the Lectures. 



The Vassar girls do not swear. They only say “ buy 
gum.” 

“ It stirs my fire.” “ What ? “ Poker ” “ Ah ! 

Grate joke.” 

Prof, (to a sleepy student) : “ Shall I send for a 
bed?” S.S. : “ No thank you, I have a crib with me.” 

“ Hullo, Bob ! The coach is full ! Guess we’ll have 
to strap you behind.” Bob : “ No you don’t ; I had 
enough of that when I was a boy.” 

Dude : — “ What do you think of my collar ? She 
(promptly) : — “ It reminds me of a whitewashed 
fence around a lunatic asylum.” 

“ Adieu,” she said sweetly as he kissed her good 
night. “ He’s adieu’d ain’t he,” sung out her little 
brother as he vanished up stairs. 

The lattest slander about a dude is, that one bumped 
his head against a cobweb stretched across the street 
and had to be carried home with a broken skull. 

An awkward compliment. — Lieutenant (to elderly 
lady) : Madam, really, to-day you look as fresh and 

blooming as a rose of twenty years — Dutch Paper. 

“ Hello ! you Blaine crowd. How do you feel 
this morning ? ” asked a Demmy this morning — 
“ Feel just like Lazarus, as it we had been licked by 
the dogs,” was the reply. 

A Freshman had an auburn-haired girl, and pro- 
mised to take her out riding. She met him at the 



door when he drove up ; he exclaimed. “ Hello ; 
Ready ? she misunderstood him, and they dont speak 
now. — Ex. 

Prof, in Physics : “ Now suppose I should shut 

my eyes — so, and should not move, you would call 
me a clod ; but I move, I leap, and what should you 
call. (Voice from the rear) “ A clod-hopper.” Class 
dismissed. — Ex. 

Obliging Senior : — “ Allow me to assist you with 
your rubbers.” Young lady : — “ Thank you, but I 
am afraid it will not be a pleasant task, as my feet 
are somewhat dirty.” Senior : — “ Oh, I won’t mind 
that, if only your shoes are clean.” 

“ I wish I was an owl,” said the young laywer. 

“ Why ? ” she asked. “ Because, then I could stay 
up all night, you know, dear,” he replied. “ What 
would you want to do such a ridiculous thing as that 
for ?” she tittered. “ To wit : to woo.” 

New York millionaire — “ Are the girls locked up 
for the night, wife?” “ Yes.” “Has the patent 
butcher-catcher in the front yard been oiled so that 
it works well?” “ Yes.” “ Well, we might as well 
chloroform the gardener and go to sleep.” 

When a Freshman doesn’t hear plainly the Prof.’s 
question, he says in a subdued tone, “ Pardon me, 
professor, but I didn’t understand you.” The Sopho- 
more says, “Will you please repeat your question?” 
The Junior says, “What, sir?” The Senior says, 
“Huh?” 

He flirtingly : — “ Dolly, tell me why your hair is 
like an Armstrong gun ? “ She musingley : — “ Be- 

cause - because its powdered.” “ No, Dolly dear, but 
because they were both made to hang .” Then there 
was a bang at which he exclaimed : “ Je vous ( che - 

veux) adore.” 

“ I think your mustache is lovely, Mr. Smith, and 
I only wish I had it on my face,” she said as she 
gezed into his face with a sort of gone look. And 
Billie, the infernal old dolt, din’t catch, but only 
remarked that he thought that it was very good for a 
three month’s growth. 

Sophomore (whose feet seem to be a burden not 
easily borne, and who had already been spoken to 
three or four times for resting them over the back of 
the seat in front) : “ Well, Prof., I don’t know what 
to do with my feet, anyway.” Prof, (sympathetically) : 

“ Perhaps it might be well to leave them outside.” 

The Seniors were taking their first practical lesson 
in astronomy. One imaginative youth was taking in 
the “ queen of night ” for all he was worth. Another 
smart specimen covered the end of the telescope with 
his hat. “ Why, the moon is inhabited,” slowly came 
from the observer. That hat is for sale cheap. 

The unsalted generation got into a pickle last week 
when a Duke of their realm, and one who aspires to 
holy orders, displayed a table knife as they con -knived 
to elivate him. The Timid tribe melted like snow 
before his grace , and they all became moysed. 

A small tract. Bunion on De-feet. By England. 



\ 



1885.] McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 13 



THE CID AND THE JEW. 

{Translated from Thtophile Gautier . 

The Cid, stem victor in each fight, 

Hero, of more than mortal height, 

In the grand church of San Pedro 
(’Twas Don Alfonso will’d it so) 

Embalmed, and seemingly not dead, 

Clad in bright steel, and helmeted, 

Sits rooted to a stately chair 
Raised on a tomb of sculpture rare. 

Like a white cloth, his beard of snow 
His coat of mail doth overflow, 

White to defend him, at this side 
Hang Tisona, his boast and pride, 

The polished and elastic blade 
That Moor and Christian oft dismay’d. 

Thus seated — dead — he seems to keep 
The semblance of a man asleep : 

Thus for seven years he hath reposed 
Since death his life of daring closed, 

And, on a certain day, each year, 

Crowds gaze upon his corpse in fear, 

Once, when all visitors had gone, 

And the great Cid was left alone 
In the broad nave with God— a Jew 
Nigh to the sleeping champion drew, 

And thus he spake : “ Here sits the frame 
Of one whom men still dread to name. 

’Tis said the strongest warriors feared 
Even to touch his grizzled beard : 

Here now he resteth, mute and cold, 

His arms, which scattered foe of old, 

Hang stiffened by the hand of death. 

Lo! since he hath no longer breath, 

Myself will stroke his beard of snow — 

I wot the mummy will not know, 

And none are present to forbid 
My laying hands upon the Cid.” 

With no presentiment of harm 
The sordid Jew outstreched his arm : 

But, ere that snowy beard could be 
Soiled by his Mad impiety, 

The Cid from out his scabbard drew 
Three feet of steel that dazed the view. 

Scared by the ghastly miracle 
Prone on the tomb the Hebrew fell : 

And when some monks, at close of day 
Had borne his palsied limbs away, 

He told them his adventure strange, 

And vowed a graceless life to change. 

Soon he abjured his faith, and then 
E’ntered a convent’s gloom. Amen. 

Geo. Murray. 



Class in Practical Histology. Professor examining 
through microscope a section of duodenum mounted 
by student No. 1 in mistake for cerebellum 

“ Ah, Glands of Brunner and Villi ! H’m, queer 
place where some people have their brains — just be- 
low the stomach. People don't usually have Villi in 
their brains.” 

Student No. 2, suggestively, “ But it might be a 
FzZ/z-nous brain, Doctor.” (Noise around the table.) 

Two meds, devotees to the rifle as well as to the 
scalpel, were discussing the favorite sport. 

“ I was shooting down at the Point the other day,” 
said Sigma, and one bullet that I fired took a cow 
right in the back and killed her dead.” 

“ Ah,” said Kappa, “ I suppose that shot made a 
bid l sigh .” 



A PECK OF TROUBLE. 

The first case on the docket was James McLaughlin 
versus Ah Sam, for damages. 

McLaughlin was an Irishman, living in Mott street, 
New York city ; Ah Sam, a Chinese laundryman oc- 
cupying part of the same floor of the building ; and the 
claim arose from McLaughlin’s stock of groceries hav- 
ing been damaged by steam and suds, from leakages 
through the rickety partitions dividing the respective 
establishments. 

The neighbourhood is a most disreputable one, in- 
habited principally by Chinese, Irish, and Italians, 
although all nationalities are represented in its decay- 
ing recesses. 

James McLaughlin was called on to give his testi- 
mony. He kissed the book with a smack, and stood 
nervously defiant. 

He was told to state his version of the matter, and 
having moistened his palms, as if about to lift a heavy 
weight, began : — 

“ This baste ov a Chinee — ” 

The court checked him and said facts and not abuse 
would be heard. 

“ Very well thin. This pig-tailed blaggard — ” 

The court, somewhat angrily, ordered him to confine 
himself strictly to the history of the case and avoid 
personalities, 

“ All right, yer anner ! This pig-eyed divil wid no 
heels on his shoes — ” 

The witness was here notified that his next remarks 
of the kind would cause him to be fined for contempt 
of court. 

“ Very well, thin, I’ll call him any thing ye say, av 
I’ll only get the law on him. He poured his bastely 
wather, all poisoned wid suds an’ stame an’ dhrippins, 
through the wall ov his place, an’ wet me groceries till 
the smell ov um wud make ye cross-eyed. I thried to 
stop him be fair manes before I tuk the law him.” 

The court here asked what fair means had been 
used. 

“ Sure I poked some spoiled limburger chaze through 
the holes in the wall, till I made his place smell bad 
enough to choke a sewer. All the good it done was to 
bring a crowd ov Chinase to his place to enjoy it. I 
belay ve on me oath he gave a party on the smell, an’ 
sold tickets.” 

The court asked gravely what other persuasion had 
been used. 

“ I wint into his place wid some friends, an’ bate 
him an’ his friends till they looked like a lot o’ broken 
wax-works, but got no relafe. Then I swore I’d have 
the law on him, the pig-eyed, J umbo-eared, bare-necked, 
splutthering divil, wid his — ” 

“ Hold on !” said the marshal. 

Ah Sam was put on the stand, and he was ordered 
to state his version of the matter in his own way. 

“ My name belong Ah Sam, I got a China laundly 
Mott street. Alio same place Laughlin, he got a gin 
mill. He talkee no got gin mill, got glocely. Belong 
lie. Suppose he got licensee, he talkee got gin mill. 
No got licensee, he talkee got glocely. Planty Ilish- 
man number one bad man — alio same Demoelat — 
makee dlunk inside a gin mill. Makee big bobbely, 



14 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1885. 



smash planty hole longside my house. Suppose that 
water walkee inside that gin mill ? How fashion ! 
My no sabe. Suppose Chinaman wantches catchee 
dlunk, ho no walkee gin mill side. Chinaman catchee 
opium dlunk, he go sleep planty. Ilishman catchee 
whiskey dlunk he talkee politic, makee bobbely. 
Maskee ! That Ilishman he walkee inside my house, 
talkee my belong damfoolo, bloke ray head. My bob- 
bely he, he bobbely my. He flen alio >ame makee 
spilum too muchee my carstumer close. He talkee 
Chinese muss go, alio same Dennis Kearney. Then 
policeman makee my walkee this side an’ makee pull 
my hair.” 

McLaughlin muttered aloud : — 

“ Faith ! Fd give him a box o’ cigarrs, av he’d pull 
the pig-tail clane out ay yer goose-egg av a head 
intirely !” 

“ Silence in the court !” roared the marshal. 

A witness was now put on the stand. He described 
himself as Heinrich Blumenthal, greengrocer, and his 
evidence ran thus : — 

“ Choodge, I shust told you all apoud it. Dot Mick 
Laughlin he shlog dot Shinerman in der het mit a 
dable und a vash-dubs. Dot Mick’s frents he shmack 
dot Shinerman’s frents mit flat-irons und vash-poards, 
und, by chimney ! never I see in my live such a fight- 
ing like dot. Breddy soon dot bolice he gomes und 
glubs my vife, und shpits on dot slate by my crocery 
vere I hef my aggounts. Py crashus ! I dond know 
vedder I gets my pills baid, or vedder I dond bay 
myselluf doze pills vot my gustomers oze me ! I dold 
dot Mick I gompromise of he gifs me six tollars and a 
• halluf. He gall me a koterhail und dond gif me a 
zent.” 

The judge ordered the case dismissed, and told the 
burly poleceman on duty to clear the court. 

That officials pushed plaintiff, defendant and wit- 
nesses roughly before him until he had them herded on 
the pavement, and then dismissed them, saying : 

“ Kow look a here. You galoots better come off this 
racket ! You’re all too fresh ! The fust muss yer 
make down among yer shebangs again, I’ll come down 
an’ dance the lancers all over yer. If I come down 
and paste yer all around with a club, ye’ll wish yer was 
inside a fire-proof safe an’ der combination bust. 
Now git ! !” 

And they got. 



« Whose ferry-boats are these ? ” growled a senior as he 
stumbled over a pair of shoes in the hall. 

“ Ferry-boats indeed, sir !” said a pretty face, opening the 
door. “ Those are my shoes, sir. Very polite of you to call 
them ferry-boats, sir! ” 

u I did not say ferry -boats, you misunderstood — fairy boots 
I said, my dear, dear young lady.” It takes four years to do 
that. — Tuftonian. 

A few days ago one of our most profoundly scientific 
lecturers was rather curiously disturbed while detailing to a 
large audience the differences between Amoeba and Froto- 
coccus, by a gentleman coming up to him with a face as long 
as a yard of pump water and a-propos of nothing — handing 
him a — cat. The audience was enthusiastic in its unscientific 
applause but the lecturer lost both his temper, and the thread 
ot his discourse. See what cats can do ! 



THE 

^aijitarium or jjome J[o$pital, 

(Established in 1879, by SAMUEL STRONG,; 

Is a Select Boarding House for people who are ill, or 
require operations, and wish for private treatment by their own 
Medical advisers. 

There are home comforts, and trained nurses in attendance 
day find night. For terms, which are moderate, and according 
to case or room, apply to 

IS “CT 3 =Ll^ 7 -ersit 3 r Street, 

MONTREAL. 



BUT TOUB, 

Boots and Shoes, 

RUBBERS, OVERSHOES AND MOCASSINS 

AT 

A. M. FEATHERSTON'S 

Shoe Stores, 

UPTOWN: QUEEN'S HALL BLOCK, 

1331 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 

JOHN HENDERSON & CO., 

HstterssndFurriers, 

283 Jfozre T)a.me Street. 



Extra Quality Goods at Lowest Cash Prices. 

Tlie “ McGILL ” Ribbon for Sale. 



mouavclx Jrttivt Emporium 

AND 

ARTISTIC GENTS FURNISHINGS STORE, 

130 1st. .Tames Street, 

FINEST ASSORTMENT OF 

Scotch Wool Underwear, Hosiery, Ties, Gloves. Mufflers, Snow- 
shoes and Toboggan requisites always on hand. 

SHIRTS MADE TO ORDER, -FIT GUARANTEED. 

Student bringing this Adv*t will Get io p. c. Disc. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



•^Central 3Dr-o.gr Stored 
W, H. CHAPMAN, 

j^HARMACEUTICAL jS HEM 1ST, JlNG., 

By Examination member of the Pharmaceutical Society 
of Great Britain. 

Licentiate of Quebec Pharmaceutical Association. 

TH2 DISPENSING OF PRESCRIPTIONS A SPECIALTY. 

Finest and Purest Drugs only used. 

COR. OF CRAIG- &c BLETJRY STS. 

PHOTOGRAPHY. 

For Cabinet Photos, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD'S. 

For Croups go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD’S. 

For Composition of Croups go to 

SUMMERHA YES & W ALFORD 'S. 

For all kinds of Photography go to 

SUMMERHA YES & W ALFORD 'S. 

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleury Street. 

RJiCHELJEU HID I EL, 

I. B. DUROCHER, Proprietor. 

Jacques Cartier Square, opp, Court House k City Hall, 

MONTREAL. 

THE ABOVE HOTEL 13 THE BEST IN THE CITY FOR McQIlL COLLEGE DINNERS. 

RAADT & CO., 

St. Lawrence Hall, 

And Queen’s Block, 1323 St. Catherine St., 

I^OITTREAL. 




GEO. BROWN & SONS, 

jlljirl mtfr ®ollar f|amifatliim*$, 

21 BLEURY ST. 

Snow Shoe and Toboganing Suits, Tuques, Sashes, 
Stocking, &c., &c- 

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 

jlurgital f|n$lnnnBnls, 

A FULL STOCK CONSTANTLY ON HAND 

IMPORTED DIRECT 

— FROM THE — 

Leading Manufacturers of the World. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. 




384 ST. PAUL STREET. 



C. ASHFORD’S 

Cheap Book, Stationery. 

AND 

FANCY GOODS SHOP, 

MEDICAL BOOKS. 

Students’ Note Books. Dissecting Cases & Scalpel 

(BY -W EISS &c SOUsT,) 

CHEAP FOR CASK. 

Books procured to order from England & the United States 

6784 AND 680 DORCHESTER ST., 

MONTREAL. 



J\ IVH-A-BLIBULT, 

Hair Dresser and Wig Maker, 

1368 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 

WELLINGTON ARCADE, 

Perfumery and Hair Goods kept in stock. Special attention for 
LADIES CHAMPOOING and CHILDREN HAIR CUTTING. 





McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



I -L 





THE 



Late of London, England, 



|)Urlai|(l ptliotapliie 

5 & 7 BLEURY STREET, 

MONTREAL. 



FukiniHi Tailor. 



31 BEAUER HALE. 



General Engravers, Lithographers, 
Printers and Publishers. 

This establishment is the oldest in Canada and is the 
largest and most complete of its kind in the Dominion, having 
every facility for executing 

ALL KINDS 



LARGE ASSORTMENT OFk-^ 



IjUjSligh, Scotch and french 




J^IETJD 

Worsteds Constantly on Hand. 



Fifteen per cent, discount 
For Spot Cash. 

Removable (Jjollarj'S and (juff$ 

FOB. OVERCOATS, 

Made from the Psimest Furs, 

Fit Better than sewed on 

AS HERETOFORE AND LOOK HANDSOME. 



Engraving and Fine Printing. 



NOTES, DRAFTS, CHEQUES, BILLS OF EXCHANGE 
and all classes of BANK WORK, finely executed on 
safety or other paper of the latest and 
most improved kinds. 



BILL HEADS, BUSINESS CARDS, NOTE & LETTER 
HEADINGS, ENVELOPES 

and every description of commercial form, 

By Lithography or Letter Press Printing. 

SHOW HARDS, GLOSS LABELS, COTTON TIC- 
KETS, MAPS, CALENDARS, ami EVERY SPECIES of 
COLOR PRINTING. 

PHOTO-LITHOGRAPHY, 

Reproductions rapidly and clearly made. 



Photo-Engraving, 

BOOKS, PLANS, PEN DRAWINGS and MAPS, repro- 
duced suitable for ORDINARY PRINTER'S USE, 

PROCESS, 

We are the only firm in Canada Really Engraving 
subjects by this process and can produce specimens of map 
work equal to the best work by U. S. artists. 



ELECTROTYPING and STEREOTYPING 

In all tlieir several branches. 

Ball Programmes, Invitations, At Home and Visiting 
Cards, neatly and tastefully engraved and printed. 

SPECIAL DESIGNS MADE FOR 

/VIenu pAPtDS, pRESTS, Monograms, ^usiness Pies 

$ c -< $ c , 

And all kinds of Paper, Envelopes and Cards 

Embossed and Illuminated. 



