

Jih Tlyt . c ’ 

TS'. 'I'l 'h I 

C3onfreal, CQarcli 22, 18C)5- 




“f/iT ' 



V 




1 










S, -It 

'V- 



% 








M ' / ^ ^ 

A\li//// 







0 b 222® 1\ 

\1 








/ 



5; 



. 



<5T^4: 














PAf.E 

Editorial Comments 201 

Correspondence 202 

Method in Legal Instruction... 202 

Contributions 203 

La Carte de Tendre 203 

A Word from O’Grady, . 205 

Did Shakespeare Smoke? 206 

Hadrian’s Ode to his Sou],/><;e/ry 207 

Heimkehr, poetry 207 

Ich Bin Dein,/^?^/rj’ 207 

Geoffrey de Villehardouin 207 

W^elcome, poetry 210 

Class Reports 210 

Feathers from the East Wing... 210 



PAGE 

Class Rcj)orls^- 

Legal Briefs. 21 1 

Arts Notes 212 

Science, '^1, poetry 212 

Comparative Medicine Class 

Reports 213 

Medical Class Reports 213 

Class Notes — Junior Year 214 

Societies 214 

Y. W. C. A 214 

Delta Sigma 215 

Applied Science Glee Club 21 

Y. M. C. A 21 

Exchanges 216 



^SV. 




uNivwsn-Y 













y 











u\ 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



I 



The MOLSONS BANK. 

Incorporated by Act of Parliament, 1855. 



CAPITAL, all Paid-Up, $2,000,000 

best, 1,300,000 



Head Office, 

Directors : 

John H. R. Molson, President. R. W. Shepherd, Vice-President. 
S. H. Ewing, W. M, Ramsay, Henry Archbald, 

Samuel Finley, W. M. Macpherson. 

P. WOLFERSTAN THOMAS, General Manager. 

A. D. DURNFORD, Inspector. H. LOCKWOOD, Asst. Inspector. 

BRANCHES. — Aylmer, Ont., Brockville, Calgary, N.W.T., Clinton, Exeter, 
Hamilton, London, Meaford, Montreal, Montreal (St. Catherine Street), Morrisburg, 
Norwich, Ottawa, Owen Sound, Ridgetown, Smith’s Falls, Sorel, P.Q., St, Thomas, 
Ont., Toronto, Toronto Junction, Trenton, Waterloo, Ont., Winnipeg, Woodstock, 
Ont. 

AGENTS IN EUROPE. — London. — Parrs Banking Co. and The Alliance 
Bank (Limited) ; Messrs. Glyn, Mills, Currie & Co. ; Messrs. Morton, Rose & Co. 
Liverpool. — The Bank of Liverpool, Limited. Cork. — Munster and Leinster Bank, 
Limited. Paris. — Credit Lyonnais. Berlin. --Deutsche Bank. Antwerp^ Belgium* 
—La Banque d’Anvers. Hamburg. — Hesse, Newman & Co. 

AGENTS IN UNITED STATES. — New York. — Mechanics* National Bank, 
Messrs. Morton, Bliss & Co. ; Messrs. W. Watson and R. Y. Hebden, Agents 
Bank of Montreal ; National City Bank, also in the principal cities of the United 
States. 

Collections made in all parts of the Dominion, and returns promptly remitted 
at lowest rates of exchange. Commercial Letters of Credit and Travellers* Cir- 
cular Letters issued, available in all parts of the World. 



Royal Insurance Co. 

LAEGEST riEE OEFIOE IN THE WOELD. 



Unlimited Liabiiity ! Absolute Security ! 

Every description of property insured at moderate 
rates of premium. 

Head Office for Canada : Insurancc BuiWing, MONTREAL, 



W. TATLEY, Manager. 

GEO. SIMPSON, Asst. Manager. 



E. HURTUBISE, \ Special Agents French 

ALFRED ST. CYR, / Department. 

G. ROSS ROBERTSON SONS, 

JAMES ALLIN, 

PERCY R. GAULT, 



} 



Special Agents English 
Department. 



EST AB LISHED 1872. 

THE 

Guarantee Company 

OF NORTH AMERICA. 



^ ESTABLISHED 1809. y 

North British and Mercantile 

INSURANCE COMPANY. 



Extrao^*dinary Directors : 

The Rt. Hon, The Earl of Strathmore I The Right Hon. Lord Wolverton 
The Rt. Hon. The Earl of Aberdeen | The Hon. Lord Wellwood 
The Right Hon. Lord Forbes. 



Canadian Directorate: 

THOS. DAVIDSON, Managing Director. 

W. W. OGILVIE. ARCH. MACNIDER. 

HENRI BARBEAU. 

Invested in Canada, nearly - - $5,000,000 

Total Assets, - 62,053,716 

''^Head- Office for Canada at Montreal.'^ 



Cstablislieff 1859 . 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST, 

122 St. Lawrence Main Street, MONTREAL. 



The Dispensing of Physicians’ Prescriptions a specialty. 

Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers supplied 
with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale Prices. 

^ Orders solicited from Country Physicians. Mail orders attended to with 
dispatch. 




SpE^ACi.^ 






S,liEL S. Cliil, 



Honor's Pupil of 
Dr. Bucklin, A.M., M.D. 



llour.s, 9 a.iii. to 5 p.m 

HENRY GRANT & SON, 



72 BEAVER HALL, 

Corner Dorchester St. 



J. A. BAZIN. L.D.S.. 

DENTIST, 

49 UNION AVENUE. 



BONDS OF SURETYSHIP. 

Head Office, Montreal. 

E. A-WLII^TO-S, 

President and Managing Director. 



TORONTO BRANCH : 

Mail Buildings, meutawd & jones, Ag:ents. 



THB 



Liueppool ^ London ^ Globe 

INSURA NCE CO MPANY. 

AVAILABLE ASSETS, $58,109,183. 

DIRECTORS IN CANADA: 

Hon. HENRY STARNES, Chairman. 

EDMOND J. BARBEAU, Deputy Chairman. 

W. J. BUCHANAN. A. F. GAULT. SAMUEL FINLEY. 

One of the Largest Insurance Companies in the World. 

All business accepted at most favorable rates and 
losses liberally adjusted. 

G-. IF. O. SlsdZZTHI, 

{Chief Agent Canada Branch)^ 

16 Place d’Armes, MONTREAL. 

A. M. ALLAN & CO., 

2134 ST. CATHERINE STREET. 

Students will find it profitable to give us a call. 

Fountain /Vlarl(et- 

. . Fish, Ga m^ and Ousters. 

Oysters delivered on tlie half-shell a specialty, 

HENRY GATEHOUSE, 

Cor. Beaver Hall Hill and Dorchester Street. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



WBITEFORD & TIEORET, 

(SUCCESSORS TO A. PERIARD.) 

JouksoIIcrs, jpuhlisl^crs aub ^aokkiubars 

rUBLISHEUS OF 

LA REYUE LEGALE. New Series. 

. 23 and 25 St. James Street, 

Bell Tel. 2921 MONTREAL. 

Out. 1st Vol. “LE DROIT CIVIL O ANADIEN.” 

By P. B. MIGNAULT, Q.C. 

. jj^^New Catalogue sent free on application. ^ 

■fflfl A|#Q and all kinds of Cameras for Sale, 
ImUUMImO Exchange or to Rent. 

$6 to $75. 

Instruction in Developing and Printing, free to all. 

/Montreal Ptiotograpiiic Supply, 



R. F. SMITH, 



Cor. Notre Dame and 

St. Francois Xavier Streets 



Sole Agent for Canada: — Rodinal, Carbutt’s and Harvard Plates ; Prosch 
Shutters and Flash Lamps, Optmus and Periscope Lenses, etc., etc. 

The ARTS 

On the McGill Fortnightly will want the 
supplements for his paper engraved and 
printed by 

DESBARATS & CO., 

73 St. James Street, MONTREAL. 

Art Supplements are our Specialty. 

STUDENTS 

Should order their Text Books and Stationery from the 
University Bookseller: 

E. M. RENOUF, 2238 St. Catherine Street, 

, . SPECIAL Agent for . , 

Moullin’s Surgery Martin’s Gynaecology 
Napliy’s Therapeutics 

WM. FOSTER BROWN, 

<^The /yicGill BooK Stole, 

2323 ST. CATHERINE ST., 

MONTREAL. 



Opposite the Bank of 

Montreal Branch. 



Telephone 364 /. 




Scales, Triangles 
and Squares, 
India Ink, etc. 



ALSO 



Microscopes 

and Accessories. 



Special discounts to 
Students, 

(THE OLD STAND). 

HEARN & HARRISON, 

1640 and 1642 Notre Dame St.,^ ^MONTREAL. 



HIGH QUALITY. 






LOW RRICES. 



Sflf^ical It?$tftili?ept5 

DOCTORS’ AND STUDENTS’ DUTFITS 

A Most Complete Stock now on hand. 




J. H. CHAPHAN, 

2294 ST. OATHEETNE STEEET, 

References: Corner of McGill College Avenuit 

The Medical Faculty 



“IT’S IMPORTANT 

. . To Dress Well.” . . 

Munroe Brothers^ 

Manufacturers and Importers of 
Gentlemen’s Fine Furnishings, is 



the place to bug from 



• • • 



Specialties: THE McCILL CUFF. 

Munroe’s Dog Skin Gloves, $1.00 

2246 St. Catherine, 



Victoria. 



WE MAKE A SPECIAETY OF 

GfoU p Photo gra phs and 

Gonibination Pictures. 



CALL IN AND SEE ODR SPECIMENS 



W. NOTMAN <& SON. 

Corner Philips Square 6c St. Catherine St. 



Fountain P<^ns 



Diaries, Calendars, 



3lani< 5ool<s, Stationary. 



BEST QUAUTIES AND LOWEST PRICES. 

MORTON. PHILLIPS & CO., 

1755 and 1757 Notre Dame St., 



j^lcGlbb FORTNIGHTby 

A Fortnightly Journal of Literature, University Thought and Event. 



VOL. III. MONTREAL, MARCH 22, 1895. No. 12 




^ EDITORIAL BOARD ^ 



£ditor-m-chief—UoMER M. Jaquays, B.A. (App. Sc. *96). 
Secretary — Miss L. E. Armstrong (Donalda ’95). 

C. H, Zink (Com, Med, and Ver, Sc, *95). Wm. Donahue, B.A, (Law ’96). 
H, M. Kinghorn, B.A., M.D, (Grads. Soc.) E. Commins, B.A. (Med. ’95). 

C. J. Hickson (Arts *95). 



^ BUSINESS BOARD ^ 



E. B. Devlin B.A., (Law ’95), Chairman. 

A. F. Edwards (Med. '96). Miss E. A, Hammond (Donalda ’96). 

A. R. Holden, B.A, (Sc. ’95). J. C, Cutting (Com. Med. and Vet. Sc. *95). 

A. E. Gordon (Arts *96). 



The McGill Fortnightly is published by the Students of the University 
on the Friday of every second week during the College Session. 

The annual subscription is j^i.oo, payable strictly in advance. Remittance to 
be made to the Chairman of the Business Board, 85 Union Avenue, Montreal. 
Single copies may be obtained at Wm. Drysdale & Co.'s, E. M. RenouFs, Cyrus 
Ashford’s, Chapman's and W. Foster Brown's, Booksellers. Price, 10 cents. 

Address Contributions to Editor-in- Chief, 963 Dorchester Street, Montreal. 



EDITORIAL COMMENTS. 



With this, the twelfth and final number of the 
third volume of the Fortnightly, the work of the 
present editorial staff comes to a close. We leave it 
to our readers to pronounce upon the success or the 
want of success that has attended our endeavors, 
only expressing the hope that their sentence will not 
be a very severe one. 

The difficulties to be overcome in conducting a 
college journal are not small ; and if to us they seem at 
least no less after than they did before our six 
months’ experience, we may fairly say the same of 
the imperfections which we have striven (often in vain) 
to avoid. We are sure that none can be more alive 
to the faults of the Fortnightly than are the Edit- 
ors themselves. 

In this connection, however, we have a suggestion 
for those who follow us. The experience of this year 
has led us to think that we might have lightened our 
difficulties by (apparently) adding to them ; and that 
what is really needed at McGill is two journals : 
one in a serious, the other in a lighter vein. Of these. 



the first would partake of the character of a review, 
and would contain articles longer and more important 
than it is possible to print under present conditions. 
The second would depend for its contributions, solely 
upon the undergraduates. We confess it does seem a 
trifle chimerical to rely for support on an enthusiasm 
which, in the case of too many, seems to culminate in 
the yearly act of electing the editors, and declines 
thereafter with such rapidity, that, though equal to re- 
ceiving the paper during the year, it is quite unequal 
to paying the subscription fee. 

Still, we have great faith in the Undergraduates, 
and attribute much of their apparent apathy to lack 
of time and to hard work. And if they would but 
remember the college paper in the holidays, and, each 
one during his season of leisure, prepare something 
for insertion during the coming session, there would 
not be the slightest difficulty in carrying out the sug- 
gestion that we have made. 

This suggestion the Undergraduates should carry 
out; and we venture to urge them to do so, not 
merely for the benefit of the incoming board of 
Editors, but for the credit of the FORTNIGHTLY and 
of the University. For it must be borne in mind 
that the college paper is looked upon not merely 
as the outcome of the literary proficiency, or the 
reverse, of its editors for the time being. It is 
generally accepted as the measure of the literary 
attainments of the Undergraduates of the University. 
Thus, whoever, by his writing, helps to elevate the 
standard of the paper, may have the satisfaction of 
feeling that in addition to the advantage (and it is a 
very real one) he himself derives in the proces.*?, he 
is beginning to return, in a small way, some part 
of the benefits which he is so freely receiving from 
his Alma Mater. We could say more on this point, 
but forbear. 

We had hoped that, during the session, the privi- 
lege would have been ours of e tending, on behalf of 
the students, our greetings to a new Principal. This 
duty, however, we leave to our successors. We had 
even ventured (months ago) to hope that we should 
have the opportunity of reviewing the new Song-Book. 
This pleasure, too is in store for our successors ; 
not perhaps our immediate ones, but we should 



202 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



think certainly for our grandchildren. Indeed, vve 
should not wonder if, by the time our grandchildren 
come to college, a new edition of the Song-Book, 
were required, for we learn that it is confidently ex- 
pected that before very first proofs of the pro- 

jected edition are expected. 

In all seriousness, though we know that the Song- 
Book committee has met with many formidable and 
unexpected difficulties, we trust that not an hour s 
unnecessary delay will now occur before the publi* 
cation of the book. 

Finally, it is with unfeigned regret that we take 
leave of our readers, thanking them for their interest 
in our journal, and reminding them, that though 
editorial boards may come and may go, the FORT- 
NIGHTLY looks to them, among others, to enable it 
to go on prosperously for many years to come. And 

our last word must be one of most sincere and hearty 
% 

thanks to the comparatively few, but all the more 
valued, friends and contributors, to whose efficient 
and ready assistance the FORTNIGHTLY owes in great 
measure whatever of success it may, during rhe present 
year, have obtained. 

The Fortnightly will next year be under the 
management of the following Board : 

Editorial staff : — 

R. T. Mullin, Law ’96 ; W. Mowatt, B.A., Med. 
’96; J. C. Robertson, Arts ’96; Wm. MacDougall, 
Sc. ’96; Winona Pitcher, Donalda ’96 ; Harry Dell, 
Comp. Med. ’96. 

Business Board : — 

J. A. Cleland, Arts ’97 ; W. Proderick, Med. ’96; 
R. A. Bell, Sc. ’97 ; M. Hutchinson, Donalda ’97 ; E. 
N. Armstrong, Law ’97 ; J. J. McCarrey, Comp. Med. 
’96. 



CORRESPONDENCE 



Method in Legal Instruction. 

Editor Fortnightly : — 

In last issue of the Fortnightly a paragraph 
appeared, stating that the Faculty of Law contem- 
plated adding a year to the Law course. From this I 
infer that a deeper, more critical and exact know- 
ledge of legal principles is needed, and that to 
lengthen the course will remedy the defect, in the 
judgment of members ^of the Faculty. 

I do not share in such opinion. The defect I 
believe to be fundamental, and the addition of one or 
even two years would not effect the improvement 
desired, I think if the methods of imparting a know- 
ledge of the law were changed somewhat that a saving 
in time would result more than equivalent to an ad- 
ditional year with present methods. 



A moment’s consideration. What a young lawyer 
needs to possess when he comes to the practice of his 
profession is, I believe, a knowledge of the law, where 
to find it and how to use it. In McGill, about forty 
courses of lectures in various branches of law are 
delivered during the three year period, by eminent 
professors, to the assembled students of all the Years. 
Herein I find the first fundamental error : and while 
making proper allowance for the undoubted ability 
of the professors and the acknowledged cleverness of 
the students, it is nevertheless quite beyond the range 
of practical teaching to present the subject-matter of 
the lectures, under these circumstances, in such a 
manner as to insure the highest good or greatest pos- 
sible progress equally to the members of the different 
Years. Should the professor address himself to the 
Third Year student, he talks over the heads of the First 
and Second Years, and presently much time is con- 
sumed in answering irrelevant and unimportant ques- 
tions of inquiring minds, struggling with recondite 
principles and unfamiliar technicalities in their vain 
efforts to follow the lecturer. Or should he address 
himself to the First Year student, immediately he loses 
the attention of the other Years. Finally, in desper- 
ation, a middle course is determined on, with the ob- 
vious result that there is a preponderance of interro- 
gation on the one hand and of restive indifference on 
the other. 

Law is a science, and should be studied as such. 
Law is a growth, and its historical development 
ought to be chronologically presented. The subject- 
matter of law is Rights, and the natural unfolding of 
it should be logically presented to the receptive legal 
mind. Law is often found in tangled confusion, re- 
quiring correct and appropriate diction to state, define 
and disentangle. There is no science in which words 
and forms of expression are more important than law. 
Precision of definition and statements z. sine qua nofi. 
Possessing it, one possesses the law ; not possess- 
ing it, one has only the power of vainly beating the 
air with uncertain words, which neither impress, in- 
struct nor convince anybody. Applying this holding 
to the course of study in question, I find there is no 
adequate provision made for one to acquire that 
readiness, fluency and precision of statement, without 
which distinction in the profession of law is not pro- 
bable. Why should one be compelled to wait until 
admitted to the bar before being afforded an oppor- 
tunity of addressing a court ? The other learned 
professions are in a much better position — the teacher 
learns by practice in the Normal School, the surgeon 
in the dissecting room, the theologian in the subur- 
ban chapel, but the young lawyer has no adequate 
provision made for the discussion of legal subjects. 
It is quite true that there is a Moot Court, but the 
number of cases argued before that tribunal has not 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



203 



averaged one for each student in attendance during 
a period of three years — as a matter of fact, the major- 
ity of students never address the court at all. Ye 
one learns a great deal of law in working up even ^ 
single case, strengthening the grasp of genera) prin- 
ciples, and increasing the power of accurate statement, 
by such practice, more satisfactorily than in any other 
way. 

I w'ould therefore suggest, in lieu of a fourth year, 
the establishing of a post-graduate course, offering a 
Master’s degree for advanced work. A considerable 
proportion of the time of post-graduates to be occu- 
pied in directing the researches of undergraduates, 
thus adding to the thoroughness of the three years, 
course, besides carrying on independent original inves- 
tigation in political science, history, government, etc. 

The Moot Court should then be regularly consti- 
tuted as a court of original and appellate jurisdictions, 
holding weekly sessions, presided over by professors 
and post-graduates. This would ensure each student 
working up at least 10 or 12 cases, and arguing them 
before the court. The services of an elocutionist 
might, with very great advantage, be provided to 
coach students in the art of speaking naturally and 
effectively in public. 

Lastly, I cannot understand how writing for “ dear 
life,” taking notes, can be regarded as a very effective 
aid to the study of law. Doubtless students should 
be required to note references, holdings and general 
principles, but anything more than this is an infringe- 
ment upon the prerogatives of Bel Air or the Derby. 
The Faculty could provide a stenographer, learned 
in the law, from whom students could procure tran- 
scripts of the essentials of lectures they had not fully 
comprehended. To secure consecutive and contin- 
uous work on the part of the student would be quite 
an easy matter if the Moot Court and post graduate 
course were organized as suggested. Another inher- 
ent defect in the system at present followed lies in 
the fact that the reading suggested by the professors 
is not always done, there being no way of checking 
the character and extent of the student’s reading. 
Of course, the lectures themselves deal very fully, as 
a rule, with the principles discussed in the advised 
reading — English, French, and Roman Law being very 
copiously drawn upon ; but, as is well known, it re- 
quires extensive reading and deep contemplation to 
appropriate those general principles of the science of 
law which are absolutely essential to the furnishing of 
the legal mind. 

In conclusion, the changes suggested in this letter, 
by which it is believed four years' work may be done, 
and well done, in three, call for the co-operation of 
the Governors in making the necessary appropri- 
ations, the Professors in remodelling the course, and 
the Students in improving their opportunities by con- 



scientious application in their niastery of the work 
assigned. 

I think if we look about us to understand the spirit 
of the age, we will be forced to conclude, that three 
years is the utmost limit that can be reached, owing 
in part to the necessary expenditure of time in pre- 
paration for entrance, and to the active spirit of the 
average youth, which makes him eager to enter the 
lists to match his tact and skill and knowledge with 
his peers in the keen race for place and power. In 
the United States, in 90 per cent, of their law schools, 
they have found it utterly impracticable to do more 
than offer the third year as a post-graduate course. 
And to some extent similar conditions prevail in 
Canada. 

In offering these suggestions I have been actuated 
by none but the warmest sentiments of loyalty to my 
Alma Mater, and I hereby acknowledge my admiration 
for the Dean and Faculty of Law, whose profound 
scholarship and eminent abilities are increasingly at- 
tractive each year to the students of that science 
“ whose seat is the bosom of God and her voice the 
harmony of the world,” 

Respectfully subscribed, 

BANNELL SAWYER. 



CONTRIBUTIONS. 



LA CARTE DE TENDRE. 

There are few things more pleasant than to rest a 
moment from the rush and hurry of our nineteenth 
century avocations, and turn to the records of by- 
gone days, noting the quaint conceits to which the 
imaginations of our far-off ancestors gave birth. In 
Mediaeval days. Queen Eleanor and the Viscoun- 
tess Ermengarde, Richard the Lion-hearted and 
Alfonso of Aragon, with many less notable compan- 
ions, presided over the Courts of Love, and decided 
questions of great importance to the ladies and cava- 
liers of those days. Once hearing an argument on : — 

“ Do the greatest affection and liveliest attachment 
exist between lovers or married persons.?” the Lady 
Ermengarde, in an elaborate judgment, stated that 
no just comparison could be established between 
these two sentiments. In a more practical suit, in 
which a lady sought to obtain damages for the felon- 
ious taking of a kiss, the plaintiff was not only non- 
suited, but condemned to furnish a supplementary kiss 
in compensation for malicious prosecution. 

In those early days it was in such idle recreations 
only that the ladies, — God bless ’em, as the after din- 
ner speaker says, — were recognized as the equals of 
man. Their education was restricted to the most 
elementary matters, and their horizon bounded by 
the home. And even long after Moliere said : 



204 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



“II n’est pas bien honnSte, et pour beaucoup de causes, 

“ Qu’une femme 6tudie et sache tant de choses. 

“ P'ormer aux bonnes mceurs I’esprit de ses enfants, 

“ Faire aller son manage, avoir I’oeil sur ses gens, 

“Et rdgler la d^pense avec economie, 

“ Doit etre son ^tude et sa philosophie. ” 

It was this doctrine that Mile. deScudery endeav- 
oured to combat, and in the face of which she won a 
place in literature for woman. When the reunions of 
I’Hotel de Rambouillet, where Mile de Scudery met 
such persons as Conde, La Rochefoucauld, Scarron, 
Corneille, Bossuet and Madame deSevigne, were dis- 
continued about 1648, she gathered her friends about 
her at her own house every Saturday, to cultivate the 
literary and conversational talent of the day. It was 
while these gatherings, known as Les Samedis, were 
at their height that the ten-volume novel Clelie made 
its appearance, and won her great renown. In it 
many conversations that took place at Les Samedis 
are chronicled verbatim ; and so earnestly was the art 
of con versation studied both there and previously at 
THotel de Rambouillet, that it is doubtful if the heavy 
style of Clelie is even an exaggeration of what actu- 
ally took place. The natural outcome of this studied 
elaborate conversation was the stilted style that w'on 
for less gifted coteries the name of Les Precieuses Ridi- 
cules. Indeed, some critics assert that Moliere directed 
the satire of Les Precieuses Ridicules against the ladies 
of those two celebrated gatherings. 

But my intention is to give a short account of that 
curious essay in the growth of friendship, that appears 
in Clelie under the title of Par ou ton pouvoit aller de 
Nouvelle Aniitie a Tendre. The Carte de Tendre is an 
almost indispensable complement to this translation, 
but unfortunately the Editor tells me it will be impos- 
sible to reproduce it in the FORTNIGHTLY. I am 
therefore compelled to give you an idea of it by a 
feeble description. 

At the bottom of the map lies the town of Nouvelle 
Amttte, horn which the various journeys start. Flow- 
ing due north to La Mer Dangereuse is the River of 
Inclination, on which is situated one of the three cities 
of Affection, that is Tendre sur Inclination. A road 
leading from Nouvelle Amitie to Tendre sur Estime lies 
to the right or east of the afore-mentioned river, and 
passes the towns Gf and Esprtt^ Jolts Vers^ Respect^ etc. 
Near it, about half-way to Tendre, lies the Lacd'Indiffi- 
rence, of which all travellers must beware. To the west 
of the Riviere d' Inclmation lies the road to Tendre 
sur Reconnatssatice passing the towns Complaisance, 
Tendresse, Obeissance, etc. Farther east is the awful 
sea of Enmity, of which you will read subsequently. 
Beyond La Mer Dangereuse, into which the three 
rivers Inclination, Esteem and Gratitude pour their 
crystal floods, lies the Unknown Land, that was seldom 
visited by the fair habitudes of Les Samedis. 

I regret, dear reader, that you should be dependent 



upon my poor description for your understanding of 
this curious little map ; but if you add to it your 
memories of the illustrations in Arnold’s Caesar, you 
can in imagination picture the map I have before 
me. 

Plunging inmedias res, I will begin the translation 
which will explain itself. 

You doubtless remember, Madame, that Hermin- 
ius prayed Clelie, to teach him how one might go 
from Nouvelle Amitie to Tendre. 

To understand design, you must notice that 

she imagines that one can develop a tender affection 
for another from three different causes. These causes 
are Esteem, Gratitude or Natural Inclination. Ac- 
cordingly she was obliged to place three towns 
of Affection (Tendre) on three different rivers bear- 
ing three different names, and make three different 
routes to them. Again she supposes that Affec- 
tion arising from Natural Inclination to be what 
it is has need of no external aid, so she puts, as 
you see, no village or stopping-place on the banks of 
this river, for it flows so swiftly that in one short day 
you are carried from Amitie to Tettdre. 

(We in modern days call this falling in love at first 
sight. The tender passion springs up unbidden, and 
as a proof of spontaneous generation, without appar- 
ent cause. For should we be asked why we love, we 
can but answer ; — 



And just because I do. 

It is said to be a delightful sensation. But being 
unversed in such things myself, I must refer you to 
any Sophomore.) 

But to go to Tendre sur EsHme is another matter, 
and Clelie has ingeniously put as many villages on the 
road as there are incidents either small or great that 
combine to produce through esteem the affection of 
which she speaks. You will see by referring to this 
map that you must first pass a town known as Gratid 
Esprit, because it is such an attribute that generally 
gives birth to esteem ; you then reach in succession 
the charming villages>/A Vers, Billet galant. Billet 
doux, that stand for the ordinary procedure of great 
minds in the beginning of a* friendship. (I under- 
stand now why I have so often written pretty verses 
and even Billets-doux to my friends.) The towns to 
be passed subsequently before reaching Tendre are 
Smcerite, Grand Ccvur, Probite, etc., all of which are 
essential to an affection due to veritable esteem. . 

Returning to Nouvelle Amitie, let us see how we 
may reach Tendre sur Reconnaissance. First, you 
C^^^^P^aisance, next to the little village 
called Soumission, that is not far from another no less 
attractive, Petits Soins. Thence you can easily pick 
out your way to Constante Li- 

to the delightful city, on the river of Gratitude 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



205 



But on the last two roads are many dangerous 
places, where the traveller must beware of straying. 

For turning too far to the right when leaving Nou- 
velle Amitie you will reach Negligence instead of 
Grand Esprit t and be lost in the Lac d’lndifference 
before your mistake is discovered. 

Similarly, by going too much to the left you arrive 
at Indiscretion 3.nd PerJidie, 2 Lnd ’ere long find yourself 
on the rocky shores of the Mer cP Inimitie, where 
many goodly vessels are wrecked. 

So these different roads make it plain that only he 
who has a hundred good qualities can expect to enjoy 
title atnitie tendre ; and that he who has only bad qua- 
lities can never have aught but hate and indifference, 
(I beg to explain here that Tendre seems to be a Pla- 
tonic affection of a very cultured class. It is certain, 
as will be seen directly, that it was not intended for 
Love, for that is the Unknown Land which Clelie 
and her companions greatly dreaded. Further, it 
would be ridiculous to suppose that one with bad 
qualities only can never expect to excite that great 
passion, especially so in face of the old Italian pro- 
verb that “ Every man can find a dog, a horse and 
a woman to love him.” ) 

Then, too, this wise young lady, wishing to have it 
understood from this map that she had never loved, 
and never intended to have anything warmer than a 
friendly affection in her heart (we have met girls who 
always say they will be old maids), interposes la Mer 
Dan^ereuse between the last bounds of friendship and 
the country beyond called Terres inconnues. 

But to translate more of the text is scarcely neces- 
sary, so I shall close this sketch with a word about 
the real Carte de Tendre, for there was one that passed 
from hand to hand among the habitues of Les Samedis, 
to whom it gave no little amusement, although it is 
said to have covered its author with ridicule. Many 
of the members of Mile de Scudery’s talented coterie 
contributed to the Gazette de Tendre, a paper that pro- 
fessed to publish reports from the various towns on 
the Carte de Tendre. Here, for instance, is a report 
from Grand Esprit : — 

“We are all anxious for the safery of an illustious 
stranger, who, though he passed here some time 
ago, has not yet reached Tendre. All that is defin- 
itely known is that he made a short stay at Jolis Vers, 
where he was well received ; that he spent a night at 
Sincerite, and set out early the following morning 
for Grand Cceur. Some say that, leaving the road, 
he made his way across country to the Riviere 
d' Inclination, on which he embarked. Others assert 
that he crossed the river to A Soins, and pursued 
his j ourney to lendre sur Reconnaissance. And a 
few fear lest he should have strayed to Oubli and 
thence to the Lac d' Indifference^ 

pour Constante Amitie : — > 



“ Since the death of the lovely and generous Elise, 
“ we have seen here only the amiable Arpasie, the 
“ wise Agelaste, and a man born on the sea-coast. 
“ But we do not despair of seeing others, for we are 
“ assured that many travellers have set out for the 
“ Empire de Tendref 

Whether the Carte de Tendre did cover its author 
or authoress with ridicule, and whether Mile de Scu- 
dery and her companions at l’H6tel de Rambouillet 
and Les Samedis were satirizing in Les Precieuses 
Ridicules, matters little to us now. The world has at 
last granted w'oman the place demanded for her by 
the authoress of “ Cyrus" and Clelie ; and how much 
we owe her who led the van of the vast army of female 
writers can hardly be estimated. 

WYDOWN. 



A WORD FROM O’GRADY. 

We ain’t with you, boys, this year, 

But we hope your sky is clear, 

An’ we guess, though we ain^t near, 

McGill goes on the same. 

Reckon, though we’re not around. 

That your merry voices sound, 

An’ the grass grows on the ground 
Same’s it used to do. 

S’pose you got the same old set 
O’ professors round there yet, 

An’ the same old jokes they get 
Off on you as us. 

S’pose you sing the same old song 
With the same old voices strong 
Till you hear the same old gong 
Ringin’ in the prof. 

S’pose collectors still appear, 

Puttin’ students on their ear, 

S’pose the coast is seldom clear 
From them craft at all. 

S’pose the freshmen op’n their eyes, 

S’pose the sophomores are wise, 

S’pose the seniors heave big sighs, 

Thinkin’ of exams. 

S’pose you got the same old gags 
When the funny column lags. 

An’ pretty much the same old wags 
As we used to know. 

S^pose the same old crib and text 
Goes from one year to the next 
Till the student gets perplext 
At its marg’nal notes. 

S’pose there’s now’ n’ again a crush 
An’ the note* books go to mush, 

S’pose the dear Donaldas blush, 

Passin’ through the hall. 

S’pose you got a poet roun’ 

Jis as good as Cap’n Goun, 

Singin’ songs o’ autumn brown 
An’ that sort o’ thing. 

Cap’n. Goun. 



MeGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



206 



DID SHAKESPEARE SMOKE ? 

Attention has often been drawn to the curious fact 
that Shakespeare has not the slightest allusion to 
the use of tobacco. The word does not occur in his 
works. We have there plenty of tavern scenes, and 
are introduced to innumerable persons who would be 
sure to have indulged in the new Indian weed, the 
fashionable nov^elty of the day ; but while reference 
is frequently' made to the use of the wines drunk at 
the table, to sherris-sack, canary, and the rest, it 
would never be gathered from Shakespeare’s plays 
that tobacco was even in use at his time. 

This is remarkable on several grounds. Tobacco 
was not only a novelty in Elizabeth’s time, but there 
was an absolute rage for it. The gallants and men 
about town made a display of their smoking as one 
of the accomplishments becoming a gentleman, nor 
did they confine the usage to their houses, or the 
taverns, or the barges in which they took their plea- 
sure on the Thames. They smoked where Shake- 
speare would have been sure to have seen them. 
They smoked in the theatres — nay, more than that, 
they indulged in the luxury upon the stage itself! 
Contemporaries inform us that it was the custom of 
the gallants to sit on low stools on either side the 
front of the stage, where they were supplied with 
pipes and tobacco at the cost of sixpence apiece. 
When, therefore, Shakespeare was upon the stage, 
or superintending the production of any one of his 
great dramas, he must have had the fumes of the 
tobacco immediately under his nose, and have 
experienced to the full the inconveniences of the 
ridiculous custom. Strange, then, that no word 
should have escaped him in regard to Raleigh’s 
newly-imported luxury. Did he like it and smoke 
himself.? Did he find it distasteful and refrain from 
its use .? In the one case, we might have expected 
laudation — in the other ridicule or open condemna- 
tion. As it is, we find neither, and shall never know 
what his views on the subject were. 

Various attempts have been made to assign rea- 
sons for the poet’s silence on this subject. It has 
been urged with some plausibility that the smoking 
of tobacco could not have been agreeable to Queen 
Elizabeth, and we know that it was particularly 
offensive to James I., who wrote a book about it. 
Now, Shakespeare was both a courtier and a man of 
business, and it is quite possible that on the one 
hand he might have refrained from praises of a cus- 
tom distasteful to the Court, and on the other from 
condemnation of what was so acceptable to his cus- 
tomers. These considerations might have influenced 
him so far as panegyric or direct abuse were con- 
cerned ; but it still remains curious that there is no 



passing allusion, no indirect reference to tobacco or 
the use of it. It remains singular that the wor is 

never used. 

What makes it more remarkable is that the works 
of other writers of the time abound in allusions to 
the then striking novelty. Ben Jonson is constantly 
introducing it into his plays— though he was of the 
two, perhaps, rather more intimately connected with 
James I. than was Shakespeare. It is true that the 
plays of the latter are alluded to as those 

“ Which did so take Eliza and our James ” 

But Ben Jonson was chosen by James to write the 
Court Masques produced in conjunction with Inigo 
Jones for the monarch’s delectation. James s avei- 
sion to tobacco would therefore be more likely to be 
shared by him than by his fellow-poet. How 
strongly the king hated tobacco is shown in every 
page of his “ Counterblast.” He denounced it as “ a 
vile and stinking custom,” and assigns many reasons 
for its disuse. Here, for instance, is a curious medi- 
cal item : — 

“ Surely smoke becomes a kilchen far better than a dining chambei, 
“and yet it makes a kitchen also oftentimes in the inwaid parts of 
“ men. soiling and infecting them with an unctuous and oily kind of 
“ soot, as hath been found in some great tobacco-takers that, after 
“ their death, were opened.” 

There can be no doubt about the thoroughness of 
James’s detestation, and Jonson, perhaps a more 
adroit courtier than Shakespeare, in spite of his 
reputation for blunt honesty, echoes the Royal utter- 
ances. 

Thus, in “ Bartholomew Fair,” he speaks of “ the 
smoke of tobacco to keep us in mist and error ; ” but 
it is quite open to question whether much that he 
wrote was not covert satire. 

It is difficult to believe that at the meetings of the 
famous club at the Mermaid and at the Apollo, 
neither Shakespeare nor Ben Jonson indulged in the 
fragrant weed. The burly figure of Ben Jonson is 
hardly complete to the imagination without being 
wreathed in a cloud in the midst of jovial companions. 
Smoking must have prevailed at these clubs, unless, 
indeed, it was abstained from out of deference to the 
ladies. 

In the famous Leges Conviviales which he wrote 
for the Apollo Club, and which were engraved in 
marble over the chimney at the Devil Tavern, Tem- 
ple Bar, we get as the twentieth law : — 

Amaiorhs querelis, ac suspiriis liber angultts esto, 
which in the current translation takes this form : 
For generous lovers, let a corner be found. 

Where they in soft sighs may their passions relieve. 
There are on the whole many less interesting que- 
ries in literary history than that which I have lightly 
touched on — Did Shakespeare Smoke .? 

H. M. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



207 



HADRIAN’S ODE TO HIS SOUL. 

“ Animula, vagula, blandula, 

Hopesque, comesque corporis, 

Quae nunc abibis in loca, 

Pallidula, rigida, nudula, 

Nec, ut soles, dabis jocos? ” 



Changeful, cheerful little soul ! 

Of this body, fellow, guest. 

Now thou leavest here —for where, 

Wan, wee Creature, chilled, bare ; 

Nor, as erst, wilt have thy jest ? 

R.M.H. 

Quebec, 



HEIMKEHR. 

[From the German of Hermann Lingg.] 

Once more I saw my native land. 

To my old home I came, 

I heard its songs, I breathed its air. 

And yet, ’Iwas not the same. 

The brooklet babbled as of yore, 

The roe leapt in the brake, 

The vesper bells rang soft ; the hills 
Were mirrored in the lake. 

I viewed the cot where, years ago, 

My mother’s welcome dwelt, 

I saw strange faces, all unknown — 

A bitter pang I felt. 

Methought the winds and waves cried out, 
“ Begone for evermore ! 

For all that's dear has passed away, 

Thou ne’er shalt see them more.” 



ICH BIN DEIN. 

In tempus old a hero lived, 

Qui loved puellas deux : 

He no pouvait pas quite to say, 

Which one amabat mieux. 

Dit illui-m6me un beau matin, 

“ Non possum both avoir, 

Sed si address Amanda Ann 
Then Kate and I have war. 

“ Amanda habet argent coin 
Sed Kate has aureas curls : 

Et both sunt very agathae^^ 

Et quite formosae girls.” 

Enfin the youthful anthropos, 

Philoun the duo maids. 

Resolved preponere ad Kate 
Devant cet evening’s shades. 

Procedens then to Kate’s domo, 

II trouve Amanda there, 

Kai quite forgot his last resolves, 

Both sunt so goodly fair. 

Se smiling on the new tapis. 

Between puellas twain, 

Coepit to tell his love a Kate 
Dans un poetique strain. 

Mais glancing ever et anon 
At fair Amanda’s eyes, 

Illae non possunt dicere 

Pro which he meant his sighs. 

Each virgo heard the demi-vow, 

With cheeks as rouge as wine. 

And offering each a milk-white hand, 

Both whispered “ Ich bin dein.” 

« Dona." 



GEOFFREY DE VILLEHARDOUIN. 

Geoffrey de Villehardouin, the most ancient of the 
French chroniclers, was by no means a writer by pro- 
fession. He lived in a time of great political and 
military movement, and, thanks to his birth and posi- 
tion, he played no small part on the stage of contem- 
poraneous event. A politician and a soldier, he was, 
above all, a man|of action. It was only in his old age, 
when he was established as marshal of Rou mania in 
the conquered lands, which it was still necessary to 
defend by the sword, that he devoted some of his 
time towards dictating or writing the events through 
which he had passed. And this he did in his own well 
beloved dialect of Champagne, rude yet forcible. 
This chronicle embraces a period of nine years, 1198- 
1 207, and the best elements of his biography for thi s 
time are furnished by it. Unfortunately the rest of 
his life is almost entirely unknown to us. Some dry 
indications of names and dates scattered thinly 
through charters and letters of this time are about all 
the sources from which we can gather any detail about 
his youth and old age. 

The date of his birth is unknown, but it seems to 
have taken place some time about the year 1150. H is 
last editor, Natalis de Wailly, has shown that he was 
the youngest son ; who his father was is also unknown* 
He was a vassal and high officer of the Count of Cham- 
pagne, one of the most powerful feudatories of the 
Crown of France. The Count of Champagne was said 
to be able to levy on his own lands 2,200 knights. 
Under so powerful a master the military dignity of 
marshal conferred a position of real importance. How 
he acquired it is unknown, but the bravery, intel- 
ligence and firmness he displayed in the fourth Cru- 
sade show that he merited not only the office of mar- 
shal but also the reputation of being a diplomat. In 
1197, Thibaut III succeeded his brother as Count of 
Champagne, being then only 22 years of age, and he 
bestowed upon Villehardouin all his confidence; but it 
was principally when the Crusade preached by Foul- 
ques de Neuilly, in the name of Pope Innocent III, 
led towards the East almost all the nobility of France 
that the Count of Champagne gave evidence of the high 
esteem in which he held the marshal’s talents. The high 
barons upon whose shoulders the fate of the expe- 
dition rested, not being able to agree about the choice 
of a route and other matters of importance, decided to 
entrust to six delegates the arrangements necessary for 
the success of the expedition. Villehardouin was one 
of these commissioners. In the beginningof 1201 they 
went to Venice as the greatest sea-power, to obtain the 
necessary ships to convey the Crusaders to Egypt. 
After long negotiations with the doge, the venerable 
Henry Dandolo and the Councils of the Republic, 
the conditions of the Venetians were agreed to, and 



208 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



the envoys hastened to return to France ; but they 
arrived just in time to see Count Thibaut die, and with 
him the Crusaders lost their chief and Villehardouin a 
revered master and friend. But he was not dis- 
couraged, and we see him go seeking fora new com- 
mander. After it had been refused by several, Boni- 
face the marquis of Monferrat, was induced to accept 
the chief command. At length the final arrangements 
are completed, the marshal arranged his home affairs, 
and left France, to which he never returned, in the 
spring of 1202 for Venice. 

There the complications commence, a good number 
of the Crusaders for certain reasons have taken a differ- 
ent direction, and Villehardouin is charged to go and 
induce them to follow the larger party. Then the 
Republic, creditor of the Barons, leads them to fi^lu 

o 

for Zara, and afterwards they are taken to Constanti- 
nople, to overthrow an emperor and place a deposed 
prince upon the throne. Many of the Crusaders be- 
come irritated, and wish to fulfill their vows ; Villehar- 
douin, however, is frightened at nothing but the pos- 
sible desertion of the malcontents. H e is one of those 
who preferred the lucrative conquest of Constanti- 
nople to the more vain glorious one of Jerusalem. 

Before Constantinople the marshal displays great 
bravery, and when the re-established emperors refuse 
to fulfill their promises to the Crusaders, the Barons 
send them, according to the feudal method, a defiance 
of war, and Villehardouin with two others carry this 
declaration to their palace, narrowly escaping being 
put to death for their temerity. The war thus breaks 
out again, and the Crusaders decide to take possession 
of the Empire and divide it as a legitimate booty.* 
Villehardouin is created Marshal of Roumania, and 
holds one of the most imporant places in the court of 
Baudoin of Flanders who has been proclaimed em- 
peror ; and when Boniface of Montferrat quarrelled 
with the new Caesar, it is Villehardouin who succeeds 
in reconciling them. And in 1205, after the disaster 
of Andrinople, in which battle the emperor was 
defeated and taken pri.soner, he showed his military 
genius by his masterly retreat through an insurgent 
country to Rodostoc. 

Under the emperor Henry, brother and successor 
of Baudoin, the authority of the Marshal increased, 
and he became his chief adviser, and in 1207 we find 
him going to bring the Emperor’s affianced wife, the 
daughter of the Marquis of Montferrat, to Constanti- 
nople. From this time the traces of Villehardouin 
commence to disappear from history. About 1209. 
when the Emperor was making his way towards 
Greece, the Marshal was left in command at Constanti- 
nople. And here he suddenly disappears from our 
eyes, and the remainder of his life is buried in mys- 
tery. That he died about the year 1213 seem cer- 
tain. 



It is without doubt from the year 1207 to 1213 that 
Villehardouin, in moments of leisure, composed his 
Memoirs, as they may be called, for he relates scarcely 
anything in which he has not taken part or of which 
he has not been a witness. 

The history of Villehardouin was appreciated from 
the moment it was written, but each generation in 
transmitting the work disfigured the text. But thanks 
to the work of Du Cange de Bual, and especially of 
his last editor, Natalis de Wailly, the text has been 
restored to somethng like its original clear! ness 
The time of action is the end of the twelfth cen- 
tury. The Pope Innocent III causes a Crusade to be 
preached though all Christendom. It was to be the 
fourth. France was aroused by the voice of Foulques, 
the old but illiterate cure of Neuilly. The Counts of 
Champagne, Blois Flanders and Saint Pol, yo ung, 
fiery and ambitious, vow to deliver the Holy Land, 
and almost the whole nobility of France followed their 
example. But when the pilgrims arrived at Venice 
they found they were unable to pay the sum required, 
and were consequently led to the capture of the city 
of Zara for the Venetians. They spent the winter in 
Dalmatia, and while here it was that the embassy of 
the Prince Alexis Comnenus arrived. Isaac, father of 
Alexis and Emperor of the East, had been overthrown 
and imprisoned by his brother, and Alexis wishes the 
Crusaders to re-establish the deposed monarch. The 
most seductive promises are made, such as the union 
of the Greek and Latin Churches, large sums of money, 
and co-operation in the Crusade. The Chiefs, despite 
the opposition of a large number of the pilgrims, sign 
the treaty. Immediately desertion commences, but 
they set sail, and succeed in arriving in the Darda- 
nelles and casting anchor at three leagues from the 
immense C3.pit3.1 on the 23rd June, 1203 

Constantinople is taken, and the Crusaders demand 
their profit; but the Emperors delay, and finally refuse 
the payment, and consequently the late allies are to 
fight with one another. But before they commence, 
Murzuphles,m January, 1204, overthrew and killed 
Isaac and Alexis, and caused himself to be crowned 
emperor. But he is unable to defend his capital 
and m April, 1 204, he is forced to fly. Constantinople 
IS sacked, and, for the third time since the arrival of 
the Crusaders, delivered up to the flames 

Baudoin, Count of Flanders, is now elected emperor 
w.th one-fourth of the capital and one-fourth of the 
land the rest to be divided equally among the French 
and Venetians, which they were to hold In feudal 
tenure, and for a moment it seemed as if the Latin 
Empire in the East would prosper. But the Emperor 
audoin was taked prisoner, and slain by John, kin.r 
of Bulgaria, who had been called in to repel the ii° 

bufth' was declared emperor, 

alpitak”*’"'' ‘han 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 




From this point the work of Villehardouin is nothing 
but the recital of military movements ; but we are able 
to distinguish a central idea, and it is that the Greeks 
of Europe, so horribly treated by their ally John of Bul- 
garia, now tend to become reconciled with the Latins. 
The cities close their gates against the Bulgarians, and 
John is forced to retreat. 

The power of the Emperor Henry also increased 
greatly by his marriage in February, 1207, with the 
daughter of Boniface of Montferrat, the most powerful 
and least docile of his vassals, and shortly after a very 
cordial meeting takes place between Henry and Boni- 
face, where they agree upon future military operations, 
but Boniface was not fated to appear at the appointed 
place. He had hardly returned to Messinople when 
a horde of Bulgarians commenced to devastate the 
country around. Upon hearing this, he sprang to 
horse without armour, and flew against theenemy; but 
pursuing them too far, he was wounded, and died soon 
after. It is with this tragic incident that Villehardouin 
suddenly and somewhat abruptly closes his work. 
Why is unknown, whether at this point his courage 
failed him to relate subsequent events, or, what appears 
more probable, his hand was stopped by death. 

And now we come to consider the historical value 
of the work. The first duty of a historian is exact- 
ness, and no one has been able to be more exact than 
Villehardouin. Concerning the fourth Crusade, he 
was in a position better than any other person, thanks 
to his birth and his rank, to see and hear all matters 
and to give them to posterity. The public and secret 
motives and councils of this singular enterprise were 
alike known to him. From the beginning to the end 
he took part in all the battles and in all the Councils. 
A man possessing the confidence of the Count of 
Champagne, and later of the Marquis of Montferrat, 
the chief of the expedition, a high dignitary of the 
Empire under Baudoin and Henry, a personal friend 
of the doge Dandolo, a military genius and a consum- 
mate diplomat, he could be ignorant of nothing, be- 
cause they could have no secrets from him. If then 
he has erred in his history, it is but just to affirm that 
it was not through ignorance. 

We must acknowledge that he does not state a 
single fact which is not true, but it is not sufficient for 
the historian to tell the truth and nothing but the 
truth, he must also tell the whole truth. To tell with- 
out fraud a part of what one knows and to retain the 
rest may be prudent when one is not quite .sure of 
having acted well, but it has the effect of falsifying 
history, and of this we must accuse Villehardouin. 

The Pope Innocent III caused a Crusade for the 
delivrance of Jerusalem to be preached. \\ hy and 
How was the expedition turned from its end ? Ville- 
hardouin knows the reason well, but his explanations 
are entirely insufficient. He does all he can to con- 



209 



vince us that it was an accident, that it was not in 
question before the end of the year 1202 when the 
pilgrims were at Venice. But he is obliged to ack- 
nowledge that from the moment of the proclamation of 
the Marquis of Montferrat as the leader of the expedi- 
tion, a large number of Crusaders, instead of joining 
him, take their own way straight to Jerusalem. And, 
again, why does not our chronicler tell us a word of 
what happened between the acceptation of the com- 
mand by Boniface and the reunion of the army at 
Venice, that'is, from September, 1201, to June, 1202? 
It is because duringthis time the intrigue was perfected 
which was to lead the expedition to Constantinople. 
He passes in silence the fact that Alexis, escaping from 
the prisons of his uncle, came, in 1201, to Philip of 
Swabia, and obtained from him a promise of support 
in the task of replacing Isaac on the throne, that 
Boniface the cousin of Philip possessed all his confi- 
dence, that he went to confer with him at the end of 
I20t, and received horn him the mission of conquer- 
ing the empire with the aid of the Crusaders in the 
name of the young prince; and that, in order to justify 
in the eyes of the Pope the change in the direction 
of the Crusade and the attack of a Christian state, 
they both advanced the long desired submission of 
the Greek Church to the Latin, and that first Alexis 
and then Boniface went, in the beginning of 1-202, 
to propose the affair to Innocent III, but he, thinking 
of nothing but Jerusalem, and wishing to owe nothing 
to his German adversary, refused to countenance the 
affair, and that his refusal must have been known to a 
large number of the Crusaders. 

In September, 1202, they were at Venice, but the 
desertions were so many that the army threatened to 
disperse, and, in order to ensure against this, they put 
them on board ship and set sail for Zara, Avithout in- 
forming them that the chiefs have already decided to 
go to Constantinople, and were negotiating in this 
view a treaty with Philip of Swabia. But they 
are careful to spend six weeks in a journey which 
ought to occupy but two days. And why is this 
Villehardouin wishes to say nothing about it. It is 
to have time to conclude this treaty, and to attempt 
once more to obtain the Pope’s consent ; it is also to 
gain the winter, — an excellent pretext to postpone 
the departure for Jerusalem till next spring, Boniface 
remained behind “ for business which he had,” as our 
chronicler tells us simply. This business was the voy- 
age to Rome, where he fails once more before the in- 
flexible will of Innocent. The Pope even severely 
condemns the expedition against Zara,and enjoins the 
Crusaders to move at once to the Orient. But of all 
this, not a word in Villehardouin. 

And again in January, 1203, when Boniface rejoins 
the army in Dalmatia, and submits the proposition of 
attacking the Greek empire to the barons and prelates, 



210 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



our author satisfies himself with recording in scathing 
terms the desertion of Simon de Montfort and a large 
number of the Crusaders, without stating the cause ; 
and to prevent the total dispersion of the army, they 
are hastily embarked and taken to Corfu in April, 
1203. At this point Boniface receives a bull of ex- 
communication from Innocent III, forbidding him to 
attack the Greek empire. He simply keeps this un- 
opened, and claims the approbation of the Pope. All 
these circumstances are carefully omitted by Ville- 
hardouin. At Corfu, where it is absolutely necessary 
that a choice of direction be made, the project is 
finally disclosed to the army, and this is the reason 
why in this island the army threatens to desert en 
masse. Villehardouin simply states the fact without 
explaining it. He also states that the army was in- 
duced to persevere by the prayers and tears of the 
marquis and great barons. What he does not state 
is that a new treaty has been concluded with Alexis, 
by which it was possible to promise the lords of infe- 
rior degree enormous sums of money, and it was cor- 
ruption more than persuasion which induced the Cru- 
saders to follow. 

But let us not exaggerate, although Villehardouin 
knew from the beginning that the question was not of 
delivering Jerusalem but of attacking Constantinople, 
itdoes not follow that he had taken his vows withlevity, 
and broke them unscrupulously. He was not of a char- 
acter nor did he belong to an age that looked upon 
heresy lightly and played with bulls of excommunica- 
tion. He might very well have thought that this devia- 
tion would not cause the abandonment of the Crusade, 
— quite the contrary, it might furnish an excellent 
base of operations against the Holy Land. But once 
Constantinople taken and the Empire divided, Jeru- 
salem was gradually put off until entirely forgotten, 
for that which was worth while taking was worth while 
preserving. 

As for their vows, they undoubtedly thought them- 
selves free from them, for had they not brought the 
Greek Church under the domain of the Latin, and 
what could the Pope say against them } Nor were 
they troubled with any qualms of conscience about 
forcing a people to accept their form of belief, for in 
that age religious persecution was allowable. Ville- 
hardouin does not therefore grow indignant over the 
sack of Constantinople, over the thousands slain, the 
treasures pillaged, the works of art destroyed, the 
bronze statues melted down for the metal in them. 
It is the fortune of war. But he does grow indignant 
over the fact that the victors did not bring their spoils 
to be justly divided, and records with satisfaction the 
punishment which overtook some who were found 
out. 

From all this it can be seen that Villehardouin 
was neither a saint nor a philanthropist, but he was 



by no means a fortune-hunter. A loyal and brave 
soldier, the first duty for him was faithfulness to the 
flag, and in him we see developed to the highest 
degree the sentiment of feudal obligations, and no- 
thing, not even the fear of excommunication, is able to 
induce him to desert his lord. 

This sentiment explains his unjust severity against 
those who left the army and went to Jerusalem on 
their own account, and the evident satisfaction with 
which he records their misfortunes, and from this we 
can judge how much more severely he will treat those 
that deserted the army through pure cowardice and 
those who were guilty of treason. 

It will thus be seen that Villehardouin was a man of 
honour, a loyal and brave soldier, by no means ahead 
of his time, for he has all the outward marks of an 
age renowned for its intolerance. He was an astute 
diplomat, and not at all what he is sometimes made 
out to be — simple and artless. But it is for the severe 
simplicity of his historical writings that we are chiefly 
indebted to Geoffrey de Villehardouin. 

A. LEVY. 

WELCOME. 

READ AT THE ARTS CONVERSAZIONE. 

Friends of McGill, we welcome you to-night, 

McGill, our mother, welcomes you ; and we. 

Her sous and daughters, welcome you. Ye come 
In pleasure’s livery, with smiles and words 
Of cheerfulness and looks of gaiety, 

Bringing an atmosphere of social light 
Into these .shades of learning, shedding joy 
Athwart the sombre tenour of our life. 

We welcome you ; though not with pomp or shout, 

Or flight of eloquence, or peal of song, 

Or full harmonic blast of instruments, 

Yet with a true heart welcome, and the trust 

That by this bright and genial interchange 

Of serious and glad thought and sparkling wit 

And gracious soul -sprung courtesy, both you 

And we may be refreshed, deriving hence 

New strength, and what is more than strength, because 

The source of greatest strength, new happiness ; 

That thus our sev’ral pathways we may trace 
With more of light and sweetness, hope and joy. 

W. M. Mackeracher. 



CLASS REPORTS. 



“FEATHERS FROM THE EAST 
WING.” 

We are sorry we must say good-bye to the Fort- 
nightly for this session. It has very patiently pub- 
lished our halting “poems ” and foolish sayings, while 
its more classical publications have considerably 
broadened our college spirit. 

It is hard to realize that now for six months we 
won’t feel obliged to thrust “just something I wrote ” 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



21 1 



into our editors hand, and then later tremulously 
seize the paper to see how it reads ; or not finding it, 
read other people’s and wish we could write as they 
do. Though missing it sorely during those six 
months, the time need not be lost in idle regrets, but 
be it ours to so improve in literary style that next 
year this column will be noted for the choice char- 
acter of its productions. 

Although the feathers from the Gymnasium have 
not been as frequent as one might expect from the 
amount of energy expended there, yet the work has 
been going on satisfactorily. One or two of the mem- 
bers have found that two lessons were as much as 
they could manage ; but those who faithfully attended, 
at least once a week, have been amply rewarded. 
Wonderful feats reach our ears of one who aspires to 
the “ Clouds,” and of another who, although she 
endangered the lives of those around her by the wild 
swinging of clubs at first, now manages them so skil- 
fully as to inspire wonder instead of dread. Much 
more could be said, but people will never see what 
is for their good. How can those over studious 
Donaldas, who pore over their books “ from morn till 
dewy eve, ” fail to sacrifice Library for Gymnasium, 
when they see the elastic step, graceful carriage and 
beaming faces of those bright maidens as they come 
late for lectures, with the gay question : “Why weren’t 
you at the Gym } ” 

By attending the Normal School Class on Wednes- 
day afternoons they show their appreciation to Miss 
Barnjum for her thoughtful arrangement, in thus 
making up for the hours missed owing to the inter- 
ference of lectures. 

OBSERVER. 



LEGAL BRIEFS. 

This is the last issue of the Fortnightly. 

Whiskers. — Very quietly and very cautiously a 
club has been organized in our midst, — the Law 
Whisker Club. We don’t quite understand why so 
much secrecy was observed in organizing the same, 
as we approve ourselves of whiskers. However, it is 
not less interesting on that account, and the few facts 
which have filtered through to our profane ear we 
take pleasure in making public. 

It is not as generally known as it ought to be that 
we have in the Faculty of Law a half dozen as fine 
and glossy sets of whiskers as anyone could wish to 
look'lipon. They range all the way from virgin, un- 
razored pen feathers to the stiff and wirey beard of 
ten years standing ; and all shades, from delicate 
blond to the wildest of North of Ireland red. 
i4 Whiskers are generally approved of among us. 
They give a sort of dignity outstanding to the Fac- 



ulty. Besides, they offset the somewhat unseemly 
frivolity of the younger contingent. A formidable 
whisker thrust in among a laughing group of three 
or four has a very restraining and subduing effect. 

However, the be-whiskered league have assembled 
in secret conclave, and held their first meeting. We 
cannot ascertain exactly what passed at that meet- 
ing'. We believe, however, that a North-of-I reland 
red was voted to the chair, and that a serious discus- 
sion arose as to whether their bearded brethren on 
the Professional staff should not be admitted to the 
cliarmed circle. It was objected that the presence of 
these latter would have a too sobering effect on the 
club, and would deprive them of half the fun ; and, 
besides, they would monopolize all the best offices 
It was decided, therefore, to keep them out. 

We are rather curious to know how the club is go- 
ing to occupy its time at the periodical meetings. 
Will they bring brush and comb, and have a sort of 
mutual general scrubbing up .!* We can restrain our 
curiosity, however, and rest content so long as we 
know that they will keep their whiskers in good re- 
pair so far as we, the public, are concerned, so long, 
in a word, as they keep the cobwebs out of them in 
the spring-time, cracker crumbs in the summer, dead 
leaves in the autumn, and give them lots of good 
ventilation in the winter. 

Owing to the term of the FORTNIGHTLY having 
expired, we will not be able to chronicle the doings 
of this interesting society, but we wish them unlimited 
success. Vive la barbel 



In a recent issue of this Journal we noticed a short 
but clever tale from the pen of Mr. Bond of ’97., 
Most of the boys missed that, but it is well worth 
looking back for. Mr. B. has not said so, but we are 
pretty sure from its tenor that the tale was evolved 
during his nightly lucubrations upon the Criminal 
Code. 

The following appointments have recently been 
made in our Faculty : — 

Athletic Association. — Messrs. William Donahue 
and Frank Bickerdike. 

P'ORTNiGHTLY for ’97 — Messrs. Robt. T. Mullin 
Editor, and Edgar N. Armstrong, Business Board. 

And now ye Classe Reporter maketh his parting 
bowe. As we stated above, this is the last issue of 
the College paper for this session, and consequently 
our pleasant Fortnightly scribble to the class here 
comes to an end. Of course we feel a little lonesome 
over it. We well remember that afternoon last fall 
when we were appointed by the class to push the re- 
portorial quill, and with what energy we set about it ; 
how we circulated among the boys in search of news. 



212 



MCGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



and came home and rolled up our sleeves and pro- 
ceeded to brief it. We don’t do that now. We got 
past that stage very soon. 

We ought to thank the boys for the numerous 
items that have been sent in from time to time for this 
column. It has lightened our labours greatly. We 
don’t know what we would have done but for those 
fortnightly budgets. We do not mean to be sar- 
castic — how could we in this solemn moment of part- 
ing. 

We have tried to “ follow the year through all its 
joys and woes ” according to promise — to keep our 
finger on the Faculty pulse, to record the Faculty 
temperature, so to speak, according to the pressure 
of events, great and small. 

We have olten during the session admired the 
good nature of the class, especially the First Year. We 
have not been clubbed for a single joke during the 
whole term. The First Year never get “ viled.” They 
are good fellows every one, and have sense enough to 
know that their Year is lawful game. 

We regret that the Class Reporter for next session 
is not appointed till the fall. We would like to draw 
him aside l^and give him some kind and fatherly ad- 
vice. We would like to point out the great men who 
have preceded him in this capacity, and exhort him 
to follow in their footsteps, and to do his level best to 
keep up this legal corner. But we will wait. 

Well, really, must we part } Has it come to that ? 
Here we pause to wipe away a tear. It is very pathe- 
tic. Farewell ! 

ARTS NOTES. 

Some stories of the Conversazione are still rife 
among the students. 

Scene I. 

6 7rat<? avveTreae evdvpcov^lcoXaovo) 

Donaldam pulcheriimam in prime anno. 

Ausiitot qu’il la voit il lui donne tout son coeur; 

But when he went to seek for her 
He found she’d sought the dour. 

Scene II. He finally found her, and talked shop. 
Latin verse, etc. 

This is what he wrote on his programme : Si alius 
alicui oscula feret mini aliam Here necesse erit 

How the lecture ended. — 

Shrove Tuesday morning. 

Prof . — “ Messieurs, vous apprendrez les trois pages 
suivantes pour demain.” 

Student on front bench. — “ But, sir, there are no 
lectures to-morrow.” 

Prof . — ” Comment cela, monsieur? ” 

Voice from backbench . — “ Oui, monsieur, e’est mer- 
er edi Ash!" 

The class breaks up in confusion. 



The class of ’97 has lost temporarily through sick- 
ness one of its brightest members. Mr. J. C. Bruce 
was compelled to be absent from lectures for a few 
days, and finally had to go to his home in Huntingdon, 
P.Q. We miss him from our ranks, and hope for his 
speedy return in full health to resume his studies. 

SCIENCE ’97. 

’Twas in September ’93 

They crowded in so blythe and free 

And filled the noisy corridors, 

Whose hard wood walls and slippery floors 
Resounded to their shouts of glee. 

Yes, Twas September ^93, 

They were the jolliest lot of boys 
That ever met to make a noise ; 

They broke the windows, smashed the chairs, 

And pitched the Second Year downstairs, 

They filled with awe and wholesome fear 
That sluggish, studious Second Year. 

The Artsmen scurried off like rats 
Invaded by a band of cats. 

They jumped thro’ windows, broke thro’ doors. 

Got on the roof or ’neath the floors, 

Hibernian William feared the strife 
So got insurance on his life, 

And then with quaking knees he found 
A musty cellar underground 
In which he stowed himself away, 

To weep and fast and swear and pray. 

’Twas in September ’94 

Each man came back a Sophomore ; 

The exams had thinned their ranks, ’tis true, 

For those who fell were not a few ; 

But all the rest came back in state 
To wage a war on ’98. 

The verdant freshies burned more green 
Whene’er a Sophomore was seen ; 

They quaked within their shoes, and ran 
Before a ’97 man. 

One took hysterics, one they say 
Fell in a faint and passed away. 

Because he thought that his new gown 
Would be torn off and trampled down. 

But soon they rallied from their fright 
And scowled on us as black as night. 

They thought of vengance dire and deep 
To slaughter us like timid sheep. 

So on this plan they soon did fix. 

To lather us with hockey sticks. 

But airy castles soon will fall, 

Air’s not the stuff to make a wall, 

Their castle crumbled and fell down. 

For *97 did them brown. 

But who, yon ask, who, who, are they 
Who scared the Artsmen all away 
And filled stout William’s heart with fear 
And paralysed the Second Year ; 

Inspired with dread and fear and hate 
The verdant year of ’98 ? 

Ah ! then I answer you their name 
Is graven on the page of fame ; 

’ I is stamped across the dome of heaven, 

And reads thus : Science 97. 

For daiing feats each man is known 
From Arctic pole to torrid zone. 

Achilles, Hector, Hercules 

Were but small fry compared to these. 



‘ * I 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



213 



In Histories which you have read 
And crammed the contents in your head, 

I ask you have you run upon 
A character like “baby John.” 

Or traversing ethereal skies, 

Did ere you strike on Paradise ? 

Or, tell me if you ere have seen 
A man with hair like our M — B — n, 

Or smiler ” with Ais weight of hair, 
Protruding jaw and stony stare. 

Who curled his lip at sneer and scoff 
But yet — he got his wool mowed off. 

If ere you meet our man from Hull, 

Just gauge the thickness of his skull. 

His whisker has developed fast, 

I wonder if it’s going to last. 

Out on the street you’ll sometimes hear 
A voice befogged by too much beer 
Shouting in tones that hurt your ear ; 

“ I say, old man, Hap-py-New Year.” 

And if you chance the face to see 
You’ll see a face that well might be 
A cherub’s wreathed in smiles so s\veet 
That's Pete. 

If you should meet a six inch grin 
Supported by a dowmey chin 

0 ertopped by straggling milk-white hair, 

That is the Glee Club’s secretaire. 

We’ve “ Bells ” enough to make a chime, 

1 merely put them in this rhyme 
To let you know a bit of fiction. 

Our Dickey ” boxed five rounds with Dixon. 
The Bells” are yet quite young, they say. 
They’ll “miners ” be for many a day. 

Of “ Newcom(b)ers ” we’ve quite a lot 
There’s “ Wilkie ” and there’s smiling Gott, 
And then the Lord High Chamberlain 
Who always makes his presence plain. 

Now, really, we must make an end 
Of all the stuff that we have penned. 

So lastly I would beg to say, 

And then I’ll close without delay. 

We’ve got an “angel” in our class. 

The only thing we lack's an ass. 



COMPARATIVE MEDICINE CLASS RE- 
PORTS. 

Two new members will be present on the Board 
of Examiners, both graduates of this College. They 
are : Dr. Frank Miller ’87, and Dr. J. M. Parkin ’89. 
Dr. J. W. Gladden and Dr. A. W. Harris ’80, will be 

present as usual. 



“Jack,” Comparative Medicine’s mascot, has posed 
successfully for a photograph. Not least among the 
friends of whom we regret to take leave stands ever 
friendly Jack,— always sympathetic, always ready to 
lend a willing ear to all the troubles of the student. 
We hope the succeeding classes will jealously guard 
his good name and make happy the remaining years 

of his life. 

That bad habit of the horse “ cribbing ” always 



receives particular attention from the professors at 
this time of the session. It must be that they consi- 
der it communicable from horse to man. 

Beware of the man who promises to send his pho- 
tograph in exchange. 

The elections for our representatives on the FORT- 
NIGHTLY Board resulted as follows : — 

Hard Dell ’96, Editorial Board ; J. J. McCarrey, 
’96, Business Board. 

Mr. Hilliard, ’97, was suddenly called to his home 
in Manitoba, on account of sickness in the family. 

This year has seen many records broken in this 
Faculty, but the grand climax was reached when the 
treasurer of the Third Year reported a balance of 
several dollars in the treasury. 

The first re-union of the Class of ’95 will be held 
fifteen minutes after Convocation, when the Ways and 
Means Committee will report plans for obtaining a 
livelihood during the ensuing year. Other important 
matters will be discussed informally. 

Dr. Baker’s presence has been missed very much 
by the students. We all wish him a speedy recovery 
to good health. 



MEDICAL CLASS REPORTS. 

“ Embryotomy ” on young House Surgeon exam- 
iners is not yet considered as a justifiable operation. 
However, if many are plucked from the Fourth Year, a 
council will probably be called to consider the matter, 
and if possible the operation will be placed on re- 
cord with instructions how to perform it satis- 
factorily. 



For every man to yet “ his deserts,” as is wished 
to the candidates for degrees, a few M.R.C.S.’s would 
be in order. There are some, however, who think 
that an M.D. C.M. will suffice. 



There was a sound of revelry among the Medical 
students on last Friday morning, and while it lasted 
the fun was fast and furious. An old faithful servant, 
who has been identified with the interior material 
workings of the College for the past twenty-five years, 
was rewarded for the assiduous care and friendly ad- 
vice which he had extended to those who had to a cer- 
tain degree been placed under his fatherly care. 
Always ready and willing to assist the student in his 
various troubles, it was but meet and right that a due 
acknowledgment of the eminent services which James 
Cook had rendered to the Medicos should be made 



214 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



in some form or another. Ten o’clock was the hour 
at which the festivity began. The students, who had 
congregated in one of the large class-rooms of the new 
wing, slowly marched down the long staircase, where 
“ Cook ’’ w'as waiting his martyrdom. A stretcher was 
quickly procured, and, amid such huzzas and applause 
as the cleverest politician might have envied, the sub- 
ject of the merriment was hastily placed thereon and 
conveyed upstairs. Meanwhile, down in the base- 
ment, busy hands were arranging the gift. Into a 
large sack, which had previously been filled with saw- 
dust, was emptied about thirty dollars in copper coin. 
The*bag was further ornamented with fancy decora- 
tions, and tied with the College colors. Upon its 
arrival in the class-room the presentation took place, 
an address breathing the gratitude and good-will of 
the students being read by Mr. A. S. McEvoy. The 
flowery sentiments which it contained closed with the 
hope that “ Cook ” would “ accept as a token of their 
esteem a few dixoid specimens of Lake Superior ore.’’ 
When the applause had subsided, “ Cook ” addressed 
his family as follows : 

“ Dearly beloved children ol sessions twain, and 
yearling kids, attention : 

“ I have been longing for this occasion, when from 
my exalted throne I can tell you with what a feeling 
of reluctance it is that I gather up this heap of dross 
to waste upon myself and leave yourselves none. But 
I can assure you that in relieving you of so much 
filthy lucre I am doing a most benevolent act. 
Money, as you know, is the root of all evil, and in 
taking over this large sum I remove temptation from 
you and lay myself open to the snares of the world, 
the flesh and the devil. Truly I do all this for the love 
I bear you. 

“And now let me thank you for this splendid vas- 
salage. I love to see you humbly stand and pour 
your servile offerings at my feet. I know that you are 
shortly to pass through trials and tribulations, but 
with this great load removed, you will find that, hav- 
ing followed the sage advice given as a free-will offer- 
ing by me, you will emerge from the fray unscathed. 
Gentlemen, the great and only ‘ Cook ’ thanks you.’’ 

The speech was received with vociferous applause. 
Cook was picked up and bounced, passed up and down 
over the heads of the students, and finally deposited 
again on the platform, when he picked up his treasure 
trove, and amid intense cheering left the hall with it 
on his shoulder. 

It is pleasant to know that the canvassing for the 
Governor’s votes of the Montreal General Hospital 
for the position of House Surgeon is a thing of the 
past. 

The pre.sent system as adopted a]short time ago, is a 
fair one, as the applicants will be examined on Medi- 



cal and Surgical subjects of a practical nature by the 
Medical Board. The successful candidates will that 
be elected by the Committee of Management as 
recommended by the Medical Board. 



CLASS NOTES— JUNIOR YEAR. 

At a union meeting of the first three years, called 
by the Juniors, the question of giving a dinner to the 
graduating class was discussed. This custom has 
fallen into disuse of late years, and many of us felt 
the time had come when it should be revived. It 
affords a very material and tasteful proof of our devo- 
tion to those whose progress we have so long regarded 
with pride and joy. After some discussion it was 
regretfully decided not to give the banquet ; our 
means fell far short of our esteem for the “ depart- 
ing.” Should the new finance scheme prove a suc- 
cess, we may hope that in the future the Faculty will 
be able to send out her graduates not like orphans, 
but properly “clothed (hooded) and fed.” 



Why are the green writing pads given to the 
Juniors ? 

There is of course an Irish element in the class ; 
we are rather proud of it, and we have also much 
that is fresh and vigourous ; but for all that the colour is 
open to misconception, and we would respectfully sug- 
gest that the Faculty give it to the First Year — its 
popular significance would then be retained. 

SOCIETIES. 



McGILL GLEE AND BANJO CLUB. 

About 9 years ago this Club was first organized, 
and, as is generally the case with young clubs, it has 
had up-hill work. But that at last it has established 
a reputation for itself has been fully proved by the 
universal reception it has had wherever it has gone. 

We hope and believe that in the near future old 
McGill will rank amongst the first on the musical list 
of the Canadian and American Universities. This 
cannot be accomplished without the hearty co-opera- 
tion of all her Faculties. Let this be a University 
Club. Let Meds., Arts, Science and Law all join 
together under the one name McGill. 

The Secretary, O. S. Finnie, Sc. ’97, will be glad to 
receive applications for membership for the ensuing 
year as early as possible. 

Y: W. C. A. 

The subject of the meeting of March 6th was “Liv- 
ing Epistles. ” Miss Vaudry drew our attention to the 
difference between ordinary letters and the living 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



215 



epistles. The mission of these was to brighten and 
cheer the world. In the after remarks, Miss Krause 
stated that our lives are the only Bibles which many 
will read. Miss Smith gave a short account of how 
Corea had been opened up to the missionaries 
through the founding of a hospital. Owing to an un- 
usual circumstance, the attendance was not so large as 
might otherwise have been expected. 

Miss Shaw conducted the meeting of Wednesday, 
March 13th, of which the subject was “Character 
Building.” 

The paper on the text assigned, viz., I Cor. 3, 
9-17, took up the important points, bringing in many 
beautiful thoughts gathered from the text and other 
passages. 

The last meeting will be held Wednesday, March 
20th, at 4 p.m. We would be glad to see our room 
well filled. 

DELTA SIGMA SOCIETY. 

A week ago we gathered in our accustomed place 
of meeting, to pay our last respects to this Society for 
the session ’94-’95. It was with feelings of regret that 
we thus met, for, thanks to the skilful hand that has 
guided the Society’s course this year, all the meetings 
have been thoroughly enjoyed. This last proved no 
exception, for we found Miss Cameron’s essay^ 
“ Women Philanthropists,” very inspiring, and the 
Impromptu Debate : “ Resolved, that college gowns 
are common property,” was just as amusing as any 
of our former attempts to be witty, convincing and 
triumphant all in five minutes. Miss Cameron, the 
retiring president, then spoke very modestly of her 
work with the Society, wished it much success in the 
future, and thanked the committee for their assist- 
ance. This was the signal for a unanimous vote of 
thanks to the speaker from the members present, 
and when the applause had subsided the meeting 
was adjourned. 

applied science glee club. 

The 4th annual meeting of the Applied Science 
Glee Club was held on Monday, March nth, when 
the following officers were elected for the ensuing 

year : — 

Hon.-President—Yxo'i. Nicolson, 

Hon -Treasurer — Prof. McLeod. 

President — G, R. McLeod, 97 * 

Vice-President — Dufresne, ’96. 

Secretary — J. B. McRae, 9^* 

Treasurer, — Heustis, ’96. 

The Treasurer’s report being read and adopted 
showed the Club to be in a good financial condition. 

There being no further business after the reading 
of the following report, the meeting adjourned with a 
vote of thanks to the retiring officers. 



Fourth Annual Report of the Executive 
Committee of the Applied Science Glee Club. 
Mr. President and Gentlemen : — 

Your committee, in presenting to you the 4th 
annual report of the Applied Science Glee Club, are 
glad to state that the past year has been as success- 
ful, if not more so, than any previous one, both finan- 
cially and otherwise, but still feel that there is room 
for improvement. 

It is felt that the Club depends too]much perhaps for 
its strength and vim on outside affairs, such as the 
drive and dinner, etc. ; and though the average attend- 
ance at practices this year was 30 — a large 'gain 
over any previous year — still, your committee would 
strongly advise that the practices be in some way 
brightened and made more agreeable in order to 
secure an even larger attendance. 

In Mr. Reyner the Club had a most capable and 
obliging instructor, and too much cannot be said to 
his credit for the able manner in which he conducted 
the practices. His re-appointment for next year is 
strongly recommended. 

Your committee at the opening of the session 
thought it would be advisable to supply the Club 
with the words and music of the songs most generally 
used, and intended having a selection of them spe- 
cially printed ; but finding this impossible, they pur- 
chased one dozen and a half Toronto song-books, 
which have aided the Club very materially in its prac- 
tices. (At that time the McGill Song-Book — as you 
may STILL be aware — was “ not for sale.”) 

The Annual Drive and Dinner was a complete 
success, fifty-two men being present. This affair 
has come to be looked upon by Science men as one 
ofth'e most enjoyable features of the session, and it is 
hoped that each year will see more and more interest 
taken in it. 

It was intended this year to give a smoking con- 
cert, but owing to our instructor’s illness, and several 
other matters of business, your committee thought it 
would be unadvisable to attempt one, but hope that 
it may take place next year, for in so doing they feel 
that the Club will be placed on a surer and still 
firmer basis. 

Respectfully submitted on behalf of committee. 

F. L. PACKARD, 

Secretary. 



YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION. 

This has been a year which will mark an epoch in 
the history of the Association ; for the last decade 
there has been the cherished hope that the Associa- 
tion should occupy a building of its own, and at last 
the realization has come, — not our ideal, by any means, 
but on the opening of College next September we 



2I6 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



shall be in possession of a portion of “ Our Building” 
on Sherbrooke street, whose open doors will be a 
standing invitation to the Students of McGill. 

The property is held by a Board of Trustees, $7, 
500 has been paid down, and the balance raised by a 
$10,000 mortgage, the interest on which is met by the 
rental of a large portion of the building ; in addition 
to the amount paid in, $4,000 has been promised in 
subscriptions, payable within three years, vvdiile the 
balance ($6,000) remains to be yet subscribed by 
friends of the Association. 

The meeting on Sunday, March loth, was addressed 
by Sir Wm. Dawson on “The Land of Canaan in 
Joshuas time ; his personal appeal to the men pre- 
sent to live manly lives, according to the type of 
Joshua, was very strong. The closing address in the 
series was that by Rev. S. P. Rose, D.D., on March 
17th, “ Introduction to the Book of Joshua this ad- 
dress was very apropos for the many who are follow- 
ing out the systematic course of reading. 

Sunday, March 24th, is “ Graduates Day, ” when 
members of the graduating classes of each Faculty 
will speak some farewell message. We trust there may 
be a large attendance at this closing meeting for the 
session. 

It is a matter of great satisfaction that we can 
announce the appointment of Mr. N. D. Keith, Arts 
’95. as general secretary for the coming session ; Mr. 
Keith will devote the greater part of his time to the 
work, and we look forward to a year of marked pro- 
gress along all lines. 

The Northfield Conference of College Students will 
be held during the first 10 days of July ; several of 
our members are planning to be in attendance, and 
we hope that McGill will have a strong delegation. 
Any students who consider attending should com- 
municate with the President at once. 

Our attention has been called to a statement we 
made in a circular recently issued, to the effect that 
our Association is the only one doing religious work 
in the University. We had no intention of ignoring 
or disparaging the work that is being done by the 
College Y.W.C.A. in the Donalda department. We 
referred only to work amongst the men of the Uni- 
versity. 



EXCHANGES. 

IVe beg to remind our College cotitemporaries that ex- 
changes should be sent to Editor-in-chief, McGllx 
Fortnightly, care McGill University Library. 

With this issue of the Fortnightly the Exchange 
Editor’s duties will ce »se, and he cannot lay aside his 
pen without wishing all the papers which it has been 
his privilege to review this session, long and prosper- 
ous careers. Through them he has derived an in- 
sight into the life of other colleges, which could have 



been obtained in no other way, while his feeling of 
friendship to sister universities has been much broad- 
ened and enlarged. He sincerely hopes that next 
year, his successor may find an equal amount of plea- 
sure and benefit from the future exchanges that reach 
McGill. 

The Acadia Athenceuni contains a most interesting 
oration at the unveiling of a tablet to the memory of 
the late Professor Hartt of Acadia University. The 
eloquent speaker showed his friend to have been a 
brilliant scientist, and one of the leading geologists 
of the day. Indeed, his career was brought to an 
early close by his devotion to his work, for being ap- 
pointed by the late Dom Pedro to make a geological 
survey of Brazil, he fell a victim to yellow fever. 

Dr. Perguson’s article on Diseases of the Bible is 
concluded in the March number of The Knox College 
Monthly. There is also a brief Outline History of 
Psalmody, which, dealing with so comprehensive a 
subject, necessarily merely touches upon the most 
characteristic events from the time of David to the 
present day. The heavier matter is interspersed by 
poems of Miss Proctor’s, George Macdonald’s, and a 
few lines from “rare Ben Jonson,” on Fame, which 
we take the liberty of reproducing : — 

Her house is all of echo made, 

Where never dies the sound ; 

And as her brows the clouds invade, 

Her feet do strike the grounds 

A very interesting account of Student Life at 
Edinburgh University is the most striking article in 
The Dalhousie Gazette. This is followed by a paper 
on Walter Pater, containing,^;/ passant, spirited 
condemnation of the custom of hazing. As is apt to 
be the case with college papers, much of its matter is 
of a personal character, more interesting to immediate 
friends than outsiders. 

The attention of anyone who is interested in 
McGill, will naturally be attracted by a McGill man’s 
Impressions of Queen’s, in Queen's University fournal, 
While we do not consider that it would be good 
taste on our part to criticize such an article, we 
cannot refrain trom remarking that we regret the com- 
parisons drawn in it. 

Harvard of forty years ago is depicted in The 
University Monthly. The rest of the paper is largely 
taken up with stories, poetry, and personal matter, 
which IS quite beyond our criticism. 

This number of The Manitoba College Journal 
devotes much space to the poets, Coleridge, Tenny- 
son and Goldsmith all receiving notice in good articles 
bearing their names. 

Grace Hospital Gazette, as its name betokens, ap- 
peals particularly to our medical friends. It is a neat 
sheet, and we wish it all success in its effort to raise 
funds for the hospital, whose name it bears. 

We have to acknowledge also. Trinity University 
Review, Kings College Record, The Mitre, The Pres- 
byterian College Journal, The Red and Blue, The 
Canadian Magazine, The Droghedean, The Collegium, 

I he Bowdoin Orient, as well as several numbers of 
Ihe Uasgow University Magazine, Th Student, and 
1 he idciwcivd Daily News^ 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



III 




Sole Agents for 

REICHERT’S 

Microscopes, 

the best line SOLD in Canada. 

A FULL LINE OF 



SKULLS, SKELETONS, 



STUDENTS’ Outfits 



A SPECIALTY. 

All Instruments guaranteed Highest Quality 

and Finish. 



PATERSON & FOSTER, 

21 Phillips l§a*« Montreai. 



TO ATHLETES. 




Regulation 
McGill Pootball. 

Jerseys, Caps and 

Stockings, 
Running Shirts 
and Pants, 

English SpikedShoes, 
Cymnasium Suits, ^ 
etc«, etc* 



ALBERT DEMERS, 338 St James Street 



McGill Crests Worked on Jerseys. 



A, T. RRATT. 



D, A. YOUNGm 



Pratt & Young>, 

TABI^CHANTS - TAILOI^S, 
64 Beaver Hall Hilif 

TELEPHONE 4693 . MONTE? EAL 

GYRUS ASHFORD, 

Bookseller & Stationer. 800 Dorchester SL, 

Medical and other Text Books, 

Students’ Note Books, Fountain Pens, 

Montreal General Hospital Pharmacopoeia, - - 26c. 



John iTurphy Dealer In 

Artists* jVlaterials, 

Fine Photographs? & ’ C. 

STUDENTS’ SUPPLIES. 

S301 St. Catlieriiie Street. 

SPECIAL TO STUDENTS / 

THIS IS McCILL WEEK AT 

BANNISTER’S 



NOTE SOME OF THE OFFERINGS: 

Men’s Fine Calf Bals, Kazor Toe, Wing Top S2.00, Regular price ?3.00 

Men’s “ “ Cong., Opera Toe, Goodyear 2 00, “ “ 3.00 

Men’s “ “ Bals, “ “ “ 2 50, “ “ 3.50 

YOU KNOW THE PLACE 

Queen’s Block Shoe Siore, 

Comer Victoria and St. Catherine Streets. 

TELEPHONE 4105 

It goes without siiylni) thnt~~-^a^^tL. 

W ALFORD’S 

is the favorite Studio with McGill. Class Pictures a specialty. 
Photos of Professors on sale. ***** 

Our rates for Students are lOWCr than ever this year. 

CORNER ST. CATHERINE AND VICTORIA STREETS. 




WEDDING PRESENTS! 



JOHN 



WATSON, 



2174 St, Catherine Street, 

A few doors east of H. Morgan & Co. 



Silver Ware and Plate of every description, Art Pottery 
Doulton, Limoges and Dresden, Jewelry, Clocks, 

Art Metal Work, Choice Selections, 

Very moderate prices. 



'jewelry and Watches Repaired 




IV 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 





Oo.9 


If ’ lil'f f 


Hot Water, Steam & Sanitary Engineers 




TO THE 


P'l :: ' i 1 j,-j ffl 


McGill Unioersity Buildings, 




Royal Victoria Hospital, 




Board of Trade Building. 

Plans and Estimates Given on Application. 



MOSES PARKER, 
IRON FOUNDER, 

19 to 29 Dalhousie Street, 

MONTREAL. 



ESTIMATES FURNISHED. 

=- 

Ah Orders will receive Personal Attention. 

GEO. W. REED. 

Bit ATE,, METAE QUAVEE ROQFIKQ,, 



G. c£ J. ESPUN. 

Box Manufacturers and 

Lumber Merchants. 

Office, 126 Duke St, - Montreal. 



Passenger and Frsigfil 






rrAn 


uLIj 


fH 


M 



llerBrosiloiis 

106 KING ST., 

MONTREAL. 



MgGASKILL, DOUGALL & GO., 

Manufacturers of the 



Asphalt Flooring* for Basements. 

783 and 785 Craig St, - MONTREAL. 

ROBIN & SADLER 

. . MANUFACTURERS OF . 

OAK-TANNED LEATHER BELTING 

IVIontrea,! £i,nd Toronto. 

Our Belting in use throughout McGill 
Technical School. 



WIGHTON, MORISON & GO. 

Masonry Contpact.or>.<i. 

OFFICES 71 St. Peter St., Board of Trade Building, 
YARDS — Corner Guy Street and G. T E. 



RAILWAY 
CARRIAGE 
STANDARD J PIANO 

FURNITURE 
BOAT 



UARNI5AES 



Also “ZANZERINE,” House, School and 
Church Varnishes. 

OfiBces, 30 St- John St*, MONTREAL* 



JAMES SHEARER, 

ST. GABRIEL LOCKS 

Manufacturer of Doors, Sashes, Blinds, Mouldings, and 
all kinds of House and Steamboat work. 

Satni Lumber of all kinds Always on Hand. 



H. R. IVES & GO. E stablished 1859. 

Artistic Wrought Iron Works, 
Architectural Iron Works. 

The BUFFALO HOT WATER HEATERS 

General Founders, etc, 

QUEEN STREET, ■ ■ MONTRE AL. 

SHEARER & BROWN, 

MANUFACTURERS OF 

BUILDING, BRIDGE AND BOAT TIMBER 
Dealers In F'g|^Plne, Tamara., 



Ohio Square White Oak always in Stock and Out to Order 

OINT ST. CM ARISES, B^OMTME AE. 



Are you taking “NAPOLEON?” 



Have you any other part books in numbers ? 



^ ^ « 



IF SO. SEND IN FOR BINDING TO 

JOHN LOVELL & SON. 

23 St. Nicholas Street, - - - MONTREAL 



J. K. M ACDONALD^^^ 

Practical House and Steamboat Bell-Hanger, 
Locksmith and General Blacksmith, Electric 
Lighting, Bells, Warehouse Telephones, &c. 

Carpenters' and Builders' Work to Order. 



LEGAL CARDS. 




762 & 764 Craig Street, 

West of Victoria Square, 



MONTREAL 



Bell Xeleplione 2591* 



ROBERT MITCHELL & CO. 



manufacturers 



( CAS m .... 



FIXTURES 



ABBOTTS, CAMPBELL & MEREDITH, 

3uIuocate.^, I^olicjtors, etc. 

No. 11 Hospital Street, MONTREAL. 



J, B. Abbott, 

H. Abbott, Jr., Q.C. 



H. J. Hague. 



C. S. Campbell 
F. E. Meredith 



Telephone 1880. 



Cable Address “Arcfost.*' 



GIROOflRD, FOSTER. MARTIN 5 GIROOARD, 
gidi'ocalw, barristers, ^oticifors, etc. 

Guardian Assurance Building, 

181 St. James Street, - MONTREAL. 



D . GIROUARD, Q.C., M.P. 
J. E. Martin. 



Geo. G. Foster 
D. H. Girouard 



Hon. John S. Hall, Q.C., M.P.P. 
Albert J. Brown. 



Selkirk Cross, Q.C. 
W. Prescott Sharp 



^ ELECTRIC LIGRT 
Engineers’, Plambers’, Gas and Steamfitters’ Goods. 



HALL, CROSS, BROWN & SHARP, 

Jidmicates, barristers and Solicitors, 

TEMPLE BUILDING, 

155 St- Jamos Street, ^ l^ONTRBAL- 



Donald Macniaster, Q.C. 



Farquhar S. Maclennan 



OfiBce and Show Room 8 BLEURT, 

Factory — ST. OUNE&ONDE. 

W. & F. CURRIE &, GO. 

Wholesal e General fflerrhaats, 

lOO Grey Nun Street, MONTREAL 

, . IMPORTERS OF . . 

Scotch Glazed Drain Pipes 

CHIMNEV TOPS, CANADA CEMENT, 

VENT LININGS, WA TER LIME, 

flue covers, whiting, 

fire bricks, plaster of PARIS, 

fire clay, borax, 

PORTLAND CEMENT, CHINA CIJVY, 

roman cement, Etc., Etc. 



Montreal. i^ACMASTER & MECLENNAN 

Julrocaies, Inrrlstors, etc. 



THE TEMPLE, 



manufacturers of . . 



^ BESSEMER STEEL 

SOFA, CHAIR and BED SPRINGS 

A Large Stock always on Hand 



St. James Street, 



MONTREAL 



McGIBBON & DAYIDSOH 

gduoates, garmters, tk. 

YORK LIFE BUILDING, 



MONTREAL. 



R. D. McGIBBON, Q.C- 



PEERS DAVIDSON, 



ROBERTSON, FLEET It FALCONER 



157 St James Street, 



MONTREAL. 



ALBANI 



GUILMANT 

LLOYD 



MARTEAU 



“ENDORSED BY ALL THE ARTISTS WHO HAVE 
EXAMINED THEM.” 









Prattc Pianos 



Manufactured and for sale only by 

L F N PDIITTF Factory and Warerooms : 

, L. II. NaH 1 I L, No. 1676 NOTRE DAME ST. 



PELLETIER 

DUCHARME 

COUTURE 

PRUME 



FURNITURE 



Bell Tel, 
No. 3237. 



AAA 

FOR 



Professors. Students 

AT SPECIAL PRICES, 

RENAUD, KING PATTERSON, 

652 CRAIC STREET- 



Geo. S. Hiniber 

HOUSE, L; ^ 

SIGN and [P P¥in'l'£>f* 

FRESCO 

All kinds of Paper-Hangings in Stock. 

2466 St. Catherine Street, MONTREAL. 

•W". Xj. GOXjE, 

(late with a. m, featherston) 

— ~2244 St. Catherine Street 



LADIES’. GENTS AND CHILDREN'S 



GOOD 



PALL and WINTER 



A A A A A A 



BOOTS 



<^^a^Fine Footwear 



$2.25, 2.75,3.50, 4.00 per pair. 



Just the thing for Students. 



Full assortment of RUBBERS and OVERSHOES 

2337 and 2339 

,ST. CATHERINE ST. 



WM. r SMARDOn. 



Gymnasium Shoes * * • * 



Telephone 4161 



ALWAYS IN STOCK 



THE LINEN 



STUDENTS’ HEADQUARTERS, 



E. A. QEB TH, 

2235 St. Catherine St., Queen’s Hall Block, 
MONTREAL. : : 

iMFonxKR X3nTTOV»o Oirpr3r*ci Wholesale 
Hiqh-Class XldVdilCt Vjl^CLilb A^•D Retail. 

Try G«rth'i Superior Smoking Tobaccos. Kyriazi Freres’ Egyptian Cigarettes. 



Makes the Gentleman and the T^undr ying 
Makes the Linen. Send yours to the bent 
place 



The Troy Steam Laundry Co., 

Tel, 666 -^^ 4 . W. HENRY, Manager. 



Dibeot 

OF 



The NEW BOOK STORE does not keep McGill College Text Books 

BUT you will find a Splendid Assortment of NOTE BOOKS and other requisites at 

CHAPMAN’S BOOKS TORE, 

2407 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 4 Doors Wes. 01 Peel. 



TELEPHONE 3827. 



