(AcGlbb FORTNIGHTky. 

A Fortnightly Journal of Literature, University Thought and Event. 

VoL - '• MONTREAL, MARCH 27, 1893. No . IC 






^EDITORIAL BOARDS 



Gordon* W. Mac Doug all, B.A. (Law ’94), Editor-in-chief . 

M. MacKeracher, (Arts ’94). George F. Shaw (Med. ’93). 

A. R. Holden, B.A. (Science ’94). Mabel Lee (Donalda *93). 

Wilfred Plaskett (Comp. Med. 93). J. A. MacPhail, M.D. (Grads. Soc.). 



-^BUSINESS BOARDS 



H. M. Kinghorn, B.A. (Med. ’94), Chairman. 

E. J. MacIver (Arts ’93), Secretary . 

J. Featherston* (Science *93). Peers Davidson, B.A. (Law ’93). 

F. A. Botterell (Donalda ’95). Glen Campbell (Comp. Med. ’93). 



The McGill Fortnightly is published by the Students of the University 
on the Thursday of every second week during the College Session in the 
University of McGill. 

The annual subscription is 1 00, payable strictly in advance. Single copies 
may be obtained at E. M. RenouFs and Wm. Drysdale & Co , Booksellers Price, 
10 cents. 

Rejected Communications will not be returned, to whichjrule no exception 
can be made. 

The name of the writer must always accompany a communication. 

Address Contributions to Editor-In-Chief, P.O. Box 37. 



The following will compose the Editorial staff of the Fort- 
nightly for the session 1893-94 : — 

EDITORIAL BOARD. 



W. M. MacKeracher. 
S. Carmichael. 

A. G. Nichols. 

A. R. Holden. 

Miss J. Brown. 

R. Grattan. 



Arts ’94, Editor-in Chief 

Law ’95 

Med. ’94 



Science ’91 

Donalda ’94 

Comp. Med. ’94 



BUSINESS BOARD. 

A. HoGLE(Law, ’94). C. H. Fox (Med.. ’95). 

E. E. Howard (Arts, ’95). J. K- Henry, B.A. (Science. ’94) 

F. A. Botterell (Donalda, ’95). II. R. Cleveland (Comp. Med). 



EDITORIAL COMMENTS. 



As in the first number of the Fortnightly for the 
-,vas the privilege of the editorial 
board to place before their readersiu assuccinct a manner 
as possible the aims and ambitions of our journal, so 
with this the last issue in what has been on the whole 
a most successful year, the editors take the opportunity 
of briefly reviewing the journalistic work of the session , 
and of offering a few remarks which may possibly prove 
of service, in the future conduction of the paper. 



The advent of the Fortnightly was certainly made 
under the most auspicious circumstances, and any sue 
cess to which it may have attained must in a large 
measure be attributed to causes outside of any enthu- 
siasm which the editorial staff may have manifested for 
the work entrusted to their charge. 

1 he labor involved in the organization and carry* 
ing out of such an enterprise is not to be lightly estim- 
ated. and the heart)' thanks of the editors is given to the 
various members (and especially to the enthusiastic 
Chairman) of the Business Board, who have undoubt- 
edly contributed in more ways than one to the success 
of this literary undertaking. 

Thus, under the advantages of a carefully considered 
constitution and solid financial arrangements, the edit- 
ors have had placed under their management a paper 
secure in its foundation, and capable of a great develop- 
ment if the requisite amount of energy and thoughtful- 
ness were employed in its conduction. Add to this the 
fact that the University, having remained for some two 
sessions back without the inestimable advantage of a col- 
lege organ, had finally come to recognize the importance 
of continuing such an institution, and were also to a 
certain extent filled with a most commendable zeal to 
aid in making it the success which any such paper un- 
der the auspices of a University boasting nigh on a thou- 
sand students would have reason to expect and demand. 
This fact alone has undoubtedly contributed to a most 
marked degree in enabling the editors to cope with the 
many difficulties in their way, and to bring the problem 
to something approaching a satisfactory solution. 

Another thing must also be taken into consideration. 
For the last two years or more McGill has been going 
ahea :l with such rapid strides (which only those who 
have been intimately acquainted with her work, both 
under the old regime and the new, can thoroughly ap- 
preciate), that greater opportunity is now given to the 
organizers of any effort than was given to our prede- 
cessors. A new energy has manifested itself throughout 
the whole body corporate of the University. It has out- 
grown the old trappings, and the large increase in the 
numbers of students attending the various courses has 
so built up and vivified the various faculties, that old 
time graduates look on, pleased and gratified at the pro- 
gress which each and all of these departments have 
been making in their various branches. 

Coming now to speak more intimately of the purposes 
of the Journal, the editors have attempted to realize, in 
so far as they were able, the expressed ambitions of 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



1 86 



the incorporators — namely, to make of the paper a stu- 
dent’s organ, founded by the students, subscribed to by 
the men of McGill, and contributed to by the under- 
graduates of each and every of the various faculties and 
affiliated branches of the University. In the past, com- 
plaints have been made that for mer efforts did not have 
this end in view, and that the students themselves had 
no part or parcel in the publications formerly issued. 
To a certain extent, these complaints may have been 
well founded ; but the glaring fact still stands forth pro- 
minently, that while the undergraduates are ready and 
willing to see such an enterprise carried to a successful 
issue, at the same time they are not ready by individual 
effort and contribution to carry out their expressed 
views and opinions. There has not been, even during 
the session now drawing to a close, a sufficient manifes- 
tation of interest in the manner indicated, and the ad- 
vantages to be derived from the contribution of articles 
dealing with the different phases of college life, as well 
as of articles of a purely literary character, have been 
largely enjoyed by lecturers, graduates and members of 
the staff. This is not as it should be ; and if the under- 
graduates desire to see an organ which will fitly and 
fully represent their interests, they must be willing to 
contribute in some measure to the attainment of their 
object. 

If we may be allowed now to speak from the point of 
view of statistics, although this may be considered as a 
trenching on the province of the financial board, the pa- 
per has been most successful. The ordinary circula- 
tion has been approximately seven hundred and fifty 
copies per issue, running as high at one time as nine 
hundred copies. The editors have also endeavored, in 
so far as the effort was commensurate with the means, 
financial and otherwise, at their disposal, to furnish as 
large an amount of reading matter as was possible, and 
are pleased to state that they have been enabled to im- 
prove on their first promise of twelve pages, and to pro- 
vide numbers averaging some eighteen pages an issue. 
True, this year ten numbers only have been given, but 
when it is taken into consideration that October was 
well advanced before matters were satisfactorily placed 
in running order, further explanation is not necessary. 

In this connection, it is a matter of regret that the 
Board are unable to furnish a complete report from the 
financial management. It had been looked forward to 
as possible, but owing to the numerous items which of 
necessity are held over until the final issue of the Jour- 
nal, a report, which would be satisfactory in its com- 
pleteness, is an impossibility. This report, however, as 
provided for by the constitution, will appear in the first 
number of the issue of 1893-4 under the new auspices 

The innovation, this year inaugurated , of appoint- 
ing “ Class-reporters ” from the various years has, on 
the whole, worked most satisfactorily, and - rrs ' 
sent in by the majority of the officers has 
valuable nature, and has aided the faculty editors very 
largely in providing reading matter of an interesting 
character to the different faculties which they represent. 
Still, an advance can here again be made, and it 



should be an important consideration for each year to 
use their discretionary powers to the utmost in selecting 
men who will fill in an acceptable manner the position 
offered them by the united suffrages of their years. Of 
course, the matter thus submitted has again to be sifte 
by the Faculty editor, and a lively rivalry should spring 
up among these subordinate officers as to who shoul 
supply the largest amount of accepted material. 

Another question has occupied the attention of the 
editorial staff this session, and that is as to whether 
a definite division of the duties devolving on the editors 
in general would not be advisable. This year the duty 
of filling up the columns of sports, exchanges and Le- 
gal news has often devolved on the editor-in-chief, in 
addition to his other responsible offices, and it would 
seem as if a pre-arranged apportionment of these duties 
would operate as an advantage, when we consider the 
large ground the Journal has to cover and the \aried 
character of its reading matter. These few suggestions 
are among those which most readily suggest themselves 
to the members of the retiring board ; and if they be 
considered by the new staff in the perfect feeling of good 
fellowship and encouragement with which they are put 
forward, our labors and the benefits of our experience 
will not have been without a good result. 

With these few remarks the editors of 1892-3 tender 
their resignation to the students, graduates and well- 
wishers of the University, and with all expressions of 
good-will welcome the incoming board to the pleasant 
and most beneficial duties that await them, promising 
them every aid and assistance that it may be in their 
power to give, as the result of an only too short exper- 
ience, in advancing the interests of the McGill Fort- 
nightly, and indirectly through that organ, the best 
interests of the University of which they are proud to 
form a part. 

THE ELECTION OF FELLOWS. 

At or before 3 p.m. on the 4th of April, 1893, will 
be decided the important question as to who will repre- 
sent the various faculties of the University on the Cor- 
poration Board. 

In this connection, as is customary, the Graduates 
Society held a meeting on Friday evening, March 1 ith, 
and the following were elected as the Society’s choice to 
act as representative fellows : — Lazv — Mr. Wm. McLen- 
nan ; Medicine — Professor T. Wesley Mills; Arts — 
J. R. Dougall ; Applied Science — Professor McLeod ; 
Comp. Medicine — Professor Baker 

The qualification, by the way, is that the candidate 
should be of not less than three years standing in the 
respective faculties, and this choice of the Society 
would seem in every way most fitting. 

The voting papers have been already issued by the 
Registrar of the University, and *• all graduate members 

- d according to Chapter V of the 

— - — -o exercise their franchise. The 

opportunity thus given is of the greatest value, and 
should be taken advantage of by all those having the 
best interests of the University at heart. 

The retiring representative fellows for 1893 are as 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



follows: — In Laiv — Matthew Hutchinson, D.C.L.; in 
Mcdicmc — Thomas Wesley Mills, M.A., M.D ; in 
Arts ~]ohn Redpath Dougall, M.A.; in Applied 
Science Wi 1 frid T. Skaiie, BA. Sc; in Comparative 
Medicine and Veterinary Science — Malcolm C Baker 
D.V.S. 

In the Educational section of the Columbian Exhi- 
bition McGill will hold its own. The Corporation has 
set aside a liberal amount of money for that purpose, 
and it is being expended in the most judicious fashion’ 
It will be a pleasing sight for the old Graduates from 
the West to find their University so much in evidence. 
The best example of the work done at McGill is her 
Graduates, some of whom might be put on exhibition 
Here is a good opening for a modest man. 



There appears to be a disposition this year on the 
part of the Governors of the hospital to be guided by 
the medical board in the selection of resident physi- 
cians. The elections of the indoor staff and of the 
non-resident staff are on entirely different bases. The 
governors are quite capable of judging who should be 
at the heads of departments, but it is clearly the duty 
of these men to select their own assistants. The lives 
of patients are at stake, to say nothing of the reputa- 
tion of the physicians and surgeons. A surgeon, for 
example, must have every confidence in his dresser, and 
that confidence will best be assured if he has the 
selection of his own assistant as he should have. 



The sense of justice in this Province is not yet 
extinct. The universities by a concentrated effort 
have demonstrated the impossibility of the Medical 
Bill, and consequently that obnoxious measure has 
been withdrawn. The treatment the “minority” 
received shows that in any case where they have on 
their side a certain amount of reasonableness their 
interests need not suffer. The present condition of 
legislation is not satisfactory, and some amendment is 
to be looked for at the coming session. It will not do 
for McGill University to be forever obstructed. The 
heads of the different Universities along with the 
Medical Board should sit down together and agree 
upon some line of action, before the question is re- 
opened. Some intelligent conclusions could then be 
reached and the unseemly quarrel ended. 



CONTRIBUTIONS 

THE UNIVERSITY OF CAMBRIDGE- 
To write a short article on Cambridge University 
D-:- 3 sibility. So much might be said of 
its history, importance, methods and courses of study, 
that when to begin and where to end become important 
questions. 

The beginning of the University dates far back into 
the past, and the truth concerning it is lost in the 
uncertainty of the knowledge of those early days. The 
legend runs that it “ owes its origin to Cantaber, a 



187 

Spanish prince, brother of Partholin, king of Ireland, 
son-in-law of Gurguntius, king of part oflGreat Britain, 
who is said to have built a town on the river Cante, 
three hundred years before the Christian era, and to 
have brought philosophers and astronomers from 
Athens, amongst whom were Anaximander and Anaxa- 
goras.” This of course is only legendary and doubt- 
less untrue, but there is some certainty that a school 
was founded at Cambridge by King Ethelbert, on the 
advice of St. Augustine and Pope Gregory, the first 
teachers being men of learning from Canterbury, which 
was already a flourishing school founded by St. 
Augustine himself. In the seventh century, King 
Sigebert of East Anglia is also said to have founded a 
school. Accredited history does not, however, begin 
till a much later date. In the early part of the twelfth 
century, ‘‘Jofferd, abbot of Croyland, who had been 
educated at the University of Orleans, sent to his 
manor at Cottenham, near Cambridge, four monks 
who had accompanied him from Orleans to England, 
and who were educated in philosophical problems and 
other primitive sciences. These coming to Cambridge 
daily openly taught these sciences in a hired barn, 
and in a short time collected a number of scholars.” 
Soon this became such an important body that it 
attracted the attention and received the patronage of 
English sovereigns, to whom both Oxford and Cam- 
bridge owe so much. 

In addition to the patronage of sovereigns, the power 
of the church, both in earlier and later times, has 
tended to enhance its influence. The influence of the 
Crown is specially shown, by the fact, that in after 
years when attempts were made to establish Univer- 
sities elsewhere in England, royal proclamations for- 
bade it, and the students were compelled to return to 
Oxford and Cambridge ; the influence of the church 
by the fact that in the days when England was Catho- 
lic, the Chancellor possessed the powers of excommu- 
nication. 

The first regular Collegiate foundation with endow- 
ment was made in the year 1284, Peterhouse college 
being founded by the Bishop of Ely. Before the year 
1450, however, five of the seventeen colleges of Cam- 
bridge University were founded nearly all by the gifts 
of sovereigns. 

Cambridge University, at present, consists of seven- 
teen Colleges each with its own staff of instructors. 
Of these, Trinity College, founded in the year 1546 by 
Henry the Eighth, is the most important. It is said 
to be the noblest institution of the kind in England if 
not in the world. Here studied some of the greatest 
men whom England has produced, and whose names 
are an inspiration to every true student, — Bacon, Sir 
Isaac Newton, Bently, Macaulay, Whewell, Tennyson 
and many others. 

At present there are in the University over three 
thousand students, of whom seven hundred belong to 
Trinity College alone, nearly all resident. Besides the 
resident students of each of the Colleges, a large num- 
ber, who are known as non-Collegiates, lodge in the 
town, in houses regularly licensed by the various 



1 88 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



colleges for Jhat purpose, and in which none but stu- 
dents are permitted to lodge during the College 
session. 

One who has formed his idea of College buildings by 
what he has seen in Canada can have little idea of 
what a college is like in Cambridge. They are all 
built on a uniform plan, in the form of a quadrangle 
which is completely closed, except the regular gateway- 
passing through the building, generally near the 
middle of one side, thus enclosing a square court. 
Each college has in this quadrangle a dining hall for 
teachers and students, rooms for tutors, a chapel and 
library, the rest of the building being devoted to stu- 
dents’ residences and lecture rooms. The great court 
enclosed at Trinity College is 334 feet long by 288 
broad, giving an enclosure of 90,000 square feet- 

The part of the building which would be most pleas- 
ing to a McGill student would be perhaps the dining- 
hall, where each day students and fellows and instruc- 
tors assemble at dinner together, whether resident or 
non-resident, — presence at dinner being as obligatory 
as attendance at lectures. Probably the part least 
interesting to many would be the Chapel, daily attend- 
ance at which is also compulsory 7 , save only in the case 
of dissenters, to whom, only of late, the colleges have 
been opened. 

One feature of Cambridge life which seems strange 
to the Canadian student is the method of regulating 
conduct. 

Unlike our Canadian system, of taking charge of 
students only when in class, the moral character of the 
student is carefully guarded. In early days we are 
told “ the students were closely watched and were con- 
fined to their respective colleges, except when at lec- 
tures. They were expected to converse in Latin, Greek 
or Hebrew. They rose at five o’clock and assembled 
in the college chapel, and at six went to the hall to hear 
lectures or perform exercises. At nine they went to the 
lectures of the public professors ; at eleven they dined ; 
at one they returned to declamation and exercises ; from 
three to six they could pursue their studies and amuse- 
ments ; at six they supped in the College Hall ; and im- 
mediately afterward retired to their chambers. Neglect 
of lectures was punished in cases of young students by 
corporal punishment in the College Hall (where sticks 
were kept for the purpose) at seven in the evening, in 
presence of all the students. ’ ’ The oversight of con- 
duct to day is not, of course, so strict as the foregoing ; 
nevertheless, strict rules are laid down for regulations 
of conduct. A student is not allowed out of his 
College later than 10 o’clock without special per- 
mission, and he must not, at any time, be seen out 
without his cap and gown, so that he may be recog- 
nized as a student by the proctors. These latter are 
officers appointed by the University, whose duty it is 
to look after the morals of the students. In can a na 1 
gown they appear on the streets at night, auu wuc 
betide the student caught in mischief ; he is arraigned 
before the College Court, and for a grave offence is 
expelled from college. In the case of non-resident stu- 
dents, the persons with whom they lodge are responsi- 



ble, these being compelled to report offences, or penalty 
of loss of license should they not do so and be dis- 
covered. 

But to touch briefly on the more directly educational 
aspect of Cambridge. Here, of course, the advantages 
are against us. The wealth of the institutions ; the 
number and quality of instructors ; the chances for 
advanced work consequent upon these ; the division 
of the courses in such a way as to permit men to be- 
come specialists; all these and many other things 
which might be mentioned give a Cambridge student 
an advantage over a Canadian trained man. As in 
ancient so in modern times, a great amount of 
instruction is given in the colleges and by private 
tutors. This is especially true of Mathematics and 
Classics, each student who desires to take either the 
Mathematical or Classical Tripos has his private tutor, 
besides the regular College lecturers. To this tutor 
he pays about $150 per year for systematic help in his 
work. Such tutors are generally fellows or tutors of 
the various colleges, and one who has established his 
reputation as a “coach” has an income equal to, if 
not better than, many of the professors. The tutors’ 
charges are about two dollars per hour. 

In Law, Theology and Medicine, however, the work 
of instruction is carried on by University Professors 
and inter-collegiate lecturers. 

The degree of Bachelor of Arts may be obtained in 
three years, the degree of Bachelor of Medicine in 
four years from admission, but a much longer time maj- 
be required according to the power of the student to 
grapple with examinations. 

The University Library is the third in importance, 
and by far the oldest in the United Kingdom. It 
contains at present about 500,000 volumes, besides 
many M.S.S., some of the latter very ancient and valu- 
able. At present the copyright law entitles the library 
to a copy of every book published in the Kingdom. 

I need hardly say that there are many other things 
about Cambridge concerning which it would be inter- 
esting to write, — the Schools, Museums, Botanical 
Garden, Observatory, Divinity School, Union, College 
Sports, etc., but these must be left for some future 
time. 

H. M. TORY. 



TWO EPIGRAMS. 

By the author of “ Heather and Harebell." 

A11 epigram is like a little cup into which is distilled 
a drop of philosophy— a thought or the flash of 
a feeling : 

THE GREAT MISGIVING. 

I stood to-day beside an open grave ; 

And, lo ! between the breathings of my breath, 

The phantom Nothingness uprose, and gave 

t the eyes of Death. 

a jn uk 1 HERN NIGHT. 

Again the great Queen Night ascends her throne, 

In regal silence — haughty, distant, cold — 

Calm as the Asian Sphinx, unmoved and lone, 

And crowned with Sirius flashing green and g old. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



189 



A COLLECTION OF EPITAPHS. 

Most young men have a hobby, which fora time they 
follow with the greatest zeal and determination. In 
my youthful days I had no desire to collect bird eggs 
or butterflies. Collecting coins was by far too expen- 
sive for my pockets, and the fashion for stamps had 
not been thought of. Autographs occupied my time 
for a few years, and I have a few that many collectors 
would value ; but after possessing them, they afforded 
me only the selfish pleasure of showing them to my 
less fortunate friends, for to me there was no enjoy- 
ment to be derived from studying the scratches and 
scribbles of great men and women, when they con- 
sisted of only their signature. 

But one day, being in a small town in Wiltshire 
and having finished my business, I rushed to the sta- 
tion in time to see the train going without me, and 
upon enquiry found the next would not leave for 
nearly six hours — in fact, one train in the morning 
and one in the afternoon was all the accommodation 
afforded, and I have no doubt quite enough. To pass 
the time away was my next consideration, and 
I began to enquire if there was anything to see in the 
place. Nothing but a nobleman’s mansion some eight 
miles distant, and the parish church. I chose the 
latter, for upon further enquiry about the mansion I 
found I could only drive there and back in the time, 
there being no chance of seeing the interior, as the 
family was at home. 

I have never regretted my visit to the old church. I 
found the parish clerk inside, dusting, etc., etc., and 
entering into conversation with him I was entertained 
and amused for a couple of hours. Near the church 
was a public house, and we crossed over the church- 
yard to drink each other’s health, and in passing, the 
old sexton stopped and pointed to a gravestone, saying, 
“ That is a curious thing to put on a gravestone ” (He 
did not say tombstone). It ran thus : — 

Gentle Reader, Gentle Reader, 

Look on the spot where I do lie. 

I was always a good feeder, 

But now the worms do feed on I. 

Alter our slight refreshment of a mug of ale and 
some excellent bread and cheese, I wished my friend 
good-bye. Some months after I was in another town, 
and had to wait for a train, so visited the churchyard ; 
and whilst sitting on one of the tombstones I thought 
of collecting epitaphs. This was some twenty-five 
years ago, and I have still gone on. From a collection 
of the many I have, I send a few, if you think them 
useful or interesting for your paper in which I take 
much interest. 



-I u - tm v-si yrn * mi \/ v* i d, Somersetshire. 

A great quantity of West of England cloth was for- 
merly made here. 

JOHN webb. 

Son of John and Mary Webb, * clothiers, who died of the 

measles May 3rd, 1646, aged 3 years. 

How still he lies ! 



And clos’d his eyes 
That shone as bright as day ! 

The cruel measles, 

Like clothiers’ fteasles, 

Have scratched his life away. 

Cochineal red from 
His lips have fled 
Which now are blue and black, 

Dear pretty wretch 
How thy limbs stretch 
Like cloth upon the rack. 

Repress thy sighs, 

The husband cries, 

My dear and not repine, 

For ten to one 
When God’s work done 
He’ll come off superfiue. 

Llanfilantwthyl Churchyard, North Waters. 

Under this stone lies Meredith Morgan 
Who blew the bellows of our church organ. 

Tobacco he hated, to smoke most unwilling 
Yet never so pleased as when pipes he was filling. 

No reflection on him for rude speech could be cast. 
Tho’ he gave our old organist many a blast 
No puffer was he 
Tho’ a capital blower ; 

He could fill double G 
And now lies a note lower. 

St. Peter’s Church, Oxford. 

Here lyeth Dr. Rawlinson’s two younger daughters : 

Elizabeth, 

who dyed May ye 21, 1624 ; and 
Dorothy, 

who dyed Jan. 10, 1629. 

Two little sisters ly under this stone, 

Their Mothers were two, their Fathers but one. 

At 5 quarters old departed ye younger, 

The older lived 9 years 5 days and no longer. 

Learn hence, ye yong gallants, to cast away laughter 
As soon comes ye lamb as ye sheep to ye slaughter. 

Martham Church, Norfolk. 

Here lyeth the Body of 
Christ Burra way, 

who departed this Life ye 18 day of October, 

Anno Domini 1730, aged 59 years. 

And there lyes 
Alice who by his Life 
Was my sister, my mistress, 

My mother and my wife. 

Dyed Feb. ye 12, 1729, 

Aged 76 years. 

Merton, Oxfordshire. 

Lady Harrington, 1675, 

Aged 57. 

She that now takes her rest within this tomb 
Had Rachel’s face aud Leah’s fruitful womb, 

Abigail’s wisdom, Lidea’s faithful heart, 

Both Martha’s care and Mary’s better part. 

Watford Magna, Warwickshire. 

Here old John Roundall lies, who counting by his sale 
Lived 3 score years and 10, such virtue was in ale. 

Ale was his meat, ale was his drink, ale did his heart revive, 
Aud could he still have drunk his ale he still had been alive. 

% A kind of thistle formerly a. ed for finishing superfine broadcloth. 



Cloth wearers. 



190 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Grayford Churchyard, Kent. 

To the memory of PETER Izod, who was 35 years parish clerk 
of this parish, and always proved himself a pious and mirthful 
man. 

The life of this clerk just threescore and ten, 

During half of which time he had sung out Amen. 

He married when young like other young men ; 

His wife died one day, so he chanted Amen 
A second he took, she departed, what then ? 

He married and buried a third with Amen. 

Thus his joys and his sorrows were treble, but then 
His voice was deep bass as he chanted Amen. 

In the house he could blow as well as most men 
But his home was exalted in blowing Amen 
He lost all his wind at threescore and ten 
And here with three wives he waits till again 
The trumpet shall rouse him to sing out Amen. 

St. Paul’s, Bedford. 

Patience, 

wife of Shadrach Johnson, 

The mother of 24 children, and died in childbed June 6, 

1 7 1 7» aged 38 years. 

Shadrach ! Shadrach ! 

The Lord granted unto thee 
Patience, 

Who labored long and patiently 
In her vocation 

But her patience being exhausted 
She departed in the midst of her labor 
.Titat 38. 

May she rest from her labors. 

Kettering Church Fair, Norfolk. 

On Thomas Aid of Norwich, 1665, and Ann his wife, 1664. 

Here two in one at rest, reposed be, 

In expectation of the One in Three. 

St. Bartholomew, London. 

Edward Cooke, M.D., aged 39. 

Uusluice your briny flood ; what, can you keep 
Your eyes from tears, and see the marble weep ? 

Burst out, for shame ; or if you find no vent 
For tears, yet stay, and see the stones relent. 

St. John’s Church, Stamford, 1783. 

Wieeiam Pepper. 

Tho’ hot my name, yet mild my nature, 

I bore good will to every creature ; 

I brew good ale and sold it too, 

And unto each I gave his due. 

Mary Tavy Churchyard, Devon. 

Thomas Hawkins, dyed 1721. 

Aged 28. 

Here buried were some Years before 
His two Wives and Five Children more 
One Thomas nam’d whose fate was Such 
To loose his Life by Wrestling much 
Which may a Warning be to all 
How they into Such Pastimes fall. 

Elizabeth and William and 
Hannah, and yet Pray understand 
A second nam’d Elizabeth 
All these were taken off by Death 
For which Prepare You Readers all. 

We must away When God doth Call. 



Stoke Newington, near London. 

This tomb was erected by William Picket, of the city of Lon 
don, Goldsmith, on the melancholy death of his daughter 
Elizabeth. 

A testimony of respect 
From greatly afflicted parents 
In memory of Euzabeth Picket, spinster, 

Who died Dec. 11, 1781 
Aged 23 years. 

This much lamented 

Young person expired in consequence 

Of her clothes taking fire 

The preceding eveniug, 

Reader, if ever you should witness such an affecting scene, 
recollect that the only method to extinguish the flame is to 
stifle it by an immediate covering. 

So unaffected, so composed a mind, 

So firm, yet soft ; so stout yet so refin’d. 

Heav’u as pure gold, by flaming tortures try’d 
The angel bore them, but the mortal dy’d- 
Not a sparrow falls 
On the ground without 
Our heavenly Father. • 

Wolverhampton Church. 

Obit 1690. 

Here lie the bones of 
Joseph Jones ; 

Who eat whilst he was able 
But once o'er fed. 

He dropped down dead, 

And fell beneath the table. 

When from the tomb, 

To meet his doom 
He rises amidst sinners ; 

Since he must dwell 
In heav’n or hell. 

Take him — which gives best dinners. 

Lincoln Cathedral. 

Here lyeth the bod} of 
Michael Houeywood, D.D., 

Who was grandchild and one of the 

Three hundred and sixty seven persons 

That Mary the wife of Robert Houeywood, Esq., 

Did see before she died 
Lawfully descended from her, 
viz., 

Sixteen of her own body, 114 grand children, 228 of the third 
generation, and 9 of the fourth. 

Mrs. Houeywood 
Died in the year 1605 
I11 the 78th year of her age. 

King Stanley Churchyard, Gloucestershire. 

Ann Collins 

Died nth Sept., 1804, aged 49. 

’Twas as she tript from cask to cask 
In a bung hole quickly fell, 

Suffocation was her task 

She had no time to say farewell. 

Bunhill Field, London. 

Here lies 

Dame Mary Page 
Page, Bart., 

; March 4th, 1728, 

In the 56th year of her age 

In 67 mouths she was tapped 66 times, 

Had taken away 240 gallons of water, 

Without ever repining at her case 
Or ever fearing the operation. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Ashburton, Devonshire 

Elizabeth Ireland 
Obit 1779 

Here I lie at the chancel door, 

Here I lie because I’m poor. 

The further in the more you pay ; 

Here lie I as warm as they. 

Dymock, Gloucestershire. 

Tho’ sweeter babes you nare did see 
That God Amity geed too wee 
But they wur ortaken wee agur fitts 
And now they lys has dead as nitts. 

Norwich, Old Hospital Church. 

In memory of Mrs. Phebe Crewe, who died May 28, 1817, 
aged 77 years. Who during forty years practice as a midwife in 
this city brought iuto the world nine thousand seven hundred 
and thirty children. 

G.F.C. 



SOME ASPECTS OF EDUCATION. 

( Conclusion.) 

Even if we grant, with Herbert Spencer, that accom- 
plishments, the fine arts, belles-lettres should occupy 
the leisure part of education, because they occupy the 
leisure part of life, the fact remains that the leisure 
part of life is to most persons more valuable than the 
hours spent in the world’s common-place activities. 
I11 these days men are asking for more leisure and pro- 
claiming that civilization is being overwrought. 
Energy is a common thing, and there may be a great 
deal too much of it : reason able ness is uncommon, and 
of it there can be scarcely be enough. The two most 
precious things man possesses are reason and imagina- 
tion. Newton, says Wordsworth finely, voyaged 
“through strange seas of Thought, alone;’’ so did 
Dante and Milton and Wordsworth himself, all impelled 
by the same force towards different goals. The prayer 
of Wordsworth for imagination, lest the glory of the 
earth fade from it and its human interest vanish utterly, 
leaving the round of space cold and bare, should be 
graven on the heart, as by fire • 

Great God ! I’d rather be 
A Pagan suckled in a creed outworn ; 

So might I, standing on this pleasant lea, 

Have glimpses that would make me less forlorn ; 

Have sight of Proteus rising from the sea ; 

Or hear old Triton blow his wreathed horn. 

Scientific criticism of the narrower type has declared 
that the desire of the poet verges on the ridiculous, 
when it seeks relief in silly fictions like Proteus and 
Triton. The remedy offered to him is the microscope, 
which can afford comforting glimpses of the finer mar- 

— : n the ocean. But the poet is 
moving aiong a pia. lc of thought altogether different. 
He is not asking for facts— they lay before his eyes in 
multitudes, above the ocean— nor is he thinking of any 
particular universe of human fancy and work. What 
he wishes should not die is a faculty — the faculty 
which raises man above his environment— Imagination. 

The aim of a University and particularly of its 



i9i 



Faculty of Arts is two-fold — to create capability of know- 
ing and capability of feeling — capability of knowing 
rather than knowledge, for a University is not mainly 
concerned in producing what Mr. Frederick Harrison 
would call persons of “ information,” but persons who 
are able to know and who have become aware of what 
ought to be known in order to enter the true life intel- 
lectual, when they are disposed to do so. But far more 
important than capability of knowing is capability of 
feeling — capability of feeling in and through and bey- 
ond things intellectual. It is perfectly possible to win 
scholarships, to pass brilliant examinations, to have 
read a whole library and yet to remain dead to higher 
influences. What distinguishes the true man from 
Wordsworth’s Peter Bell or from the oyster is not that 
he knows more, but that he feels, or can be made to 
feel, otherwise than they do. An intellectual automaton 
may, of course, provoke wonder, but without the 
thought which springs from his own feeling he can 
never leave traces which mould and elevate those with 
whom he is brought into contact. Men act sometimes 
as if a University existed in order to manufacture 
degrees. If this view is accepted, good Universities do 
their work very badly ; they do not manufacture half 
fast enough. Sometimes the outsider affects to despise 
degrees, and maintains that a Bachelor of Arts will, in 
the majority of cases, prove to be a blockhead ; he does 
not tell us whether a blockhead will, in the majority of 
cases, prove to be a Bachelor of Arts. However, the 
demand for academic titles seems to be on the increase, 
and we will so far agree with the outsider as to say that 
titles may mean neither knowledge nor capability of 
knowing nor capability of feeling. No man can be 
made strong by them — the true quality of his strength 
lies within himself. 

The development of the^ leading Universities in the 
United States is profoundly interesting. A great and 
practical people with about one fourth only of their 
vast country thickly settled and brought into the body 
of a living organism in all its aspects, is now pressing 
on the intellectual centres of the Old World. America 
was once spoken of as if its people aimed rather at 
“information” than education, and the remark has 
not by any means lost its application yet. Buckle, the 
historian, touches on the intellectual life of America, 
and contrasts it with that of Germany. The German 
intellect, he says, stimulated by the Freuch, has grown 
rapidly during the present century, too rapidly for its 
civilization. Germany possesses learning which places 
it in the highest rank among nations ; its contributions 
to modern philosophy are influencing the human mind 
more profoundly, perhaps, than those of any other 
country. But the interval between the highest and 
lowest minds there, is, so Buckle maintains, immense ; 
and, further, the highest minds are accustomed to write 
in a language which the lower classes cannot under- 
stand on account of its subtle and inverted mode. “ In 
America, on the other hand, we see a civilization pre- 
cisely the reverse of this. We see a country, of which 
it has been truly said, that in no other are there so few 
men of great learning and so few men of great ignor- 



192 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



ance. In Germany, the speculative classes and the 
practical classes are altogether disunited ; in America, 
they are altogether fused.” “The stock of American 
knowledge is small, but it is spread through all classes ; 
the stock of German knowledge is immense, but it is 
confined to one class. Which of these two forms of 
civilization is the more advantageous, is a question we 
are not now called upon to decide. It is enough for 
our present purpose, that in Germany there is a serious 
failure in the diffusion of knowledge ; and, in America, 
a no less serious one in its accumulation.” This view, 
which still leaves matter for thought, must be modified 
if it is to reflect the condition of things now existing in 
both countries. However, what has been taking place 
in America, for the last generation at least, is precisely 
this accumulation of which Buckle speaks and more 
conspicuously, of course, in the large centres of popu- 
lation. It is a well-known fact that Europe has to 
watch her literary and artistic treasures very keenly, 
whenever they come to the hammer, in order to retain 
them. 

Although American literature cannot for a moment 
rank with that of the older countries of Europe, still, 
intellectual America is becoming ver}^ earnest and 
clearly progressive. And America can assert herself 
in the. face of England and Germany in matters of pure 
scholarship. I find a proof of it at my elbow in the 
Preface to the latest edition of the large Greek Lexicon, 
familiarly known as “ Liddell and Scott ” Nor, in this 
connection, can I omit to quote the remarks made by 
Prof. Jebb in the Introduction to his edition of the 
CEdipus Tyrannus of Sophocles. “In May, 1881,“ 
writes Prof. Jebb, “after seven months of preparation, 
the Oedipits Tyrannus was acted in the original Greek 
by members of Harvard University. Archaeology, 
scholarship and art had conspired to make the presen- 
tation perfect in every detail ; and the admirable record 
of the performance which has been published has a 
permanent value for every student of Sophocles.” The 
little volume to which Prof. Jebb refers is certainly 
deeply interesting. All of us do not care to become 
students of Sophocles — the man who, in the words of 
Matthew Arnold, “saw life steadily, and saw it whole 
but those who do and who can rise above form, and 
enter, be it ever so little, into Greek spirit, will find 
Mr. Henry Norman’s account -worth more than one 
reading. What has been said of “Liddell and Scott ’’ 
is true of its cousin in the family of books, the Latin 
dictionary familiarly known as “Andrews,” in so far 
as testimony to American scholarship is concerned. 
It is pleasing, too, to think that the country which 
produces the work of an Edison has produced Prof. 
Goodwin’s book on the Syntax of the Moods and 
Tenses of the Greek verb, which is recommended to 
candidates for honors in the English universities, and 
is known all over the world as one of the a .... 

ments of a difficult subject. Impelled by a 

practical, but, in reality, a theoretical spirit, America 
seals her classical training by sending her Grecians to 
her school at Athens. A question might be asked at 
this point : When will McGill, following in the steps 



of the English and American Universities and of the 
University of Toronto, act a Greek play ? Ho our 
energies concern themselves with so many important 
matters that we are content to approach an interesting 
people through grammars and lexicons? 

Just as we assumed that a practical working know- 
ledge of French and German and English should be 
demanded of matriculants, so we may now state that 
a University is called on to interpret more fully the 
master-pieces of their literatures, to trace the develop- 
ment of their philosophical thought, to investigate his- 
torically the formation of their grammar. But, above 
all, a university is called on to point out the relativity, 
the continuity, nay, the unity of all knowledge. It 
has to combat the idea of isolation which the popular 
mind attaches to the various departments of human 
activity and thought. You may ask me whether 
English — and I speak of its language, history and liter- 
ature — is not of itself a most potent factor in developing 
those very faculties and powers which a university is 
supposed to foster, and I answer without hesitation : 
Yes. If the lives and the thought of those who have 
written in English cannot be made interesting to youth 
and highly effective as a means of education, the fault 
does not lie with the waiters and thinkers themselves. 
And, further, on the side of language, English can pro- 
duce abundant matter for the study of form. Anglo- 
Saxon, if we glance at a page of its poetry, seems 
almost like a foreign or a lost tongue. Jejune as its 
thought is, although it is not so jejune as some persons 
imagine, it supplies the requisite material for instruc- 
tion in the development of the English tongue. But 
directly we pass even the elementary line in English, 
we discover that there is no such thing as English by 
itself and of itself. As for English Literature, in the 
deepest and truest sense it does not exist ; what exists 
is Literature in English. As I said a moment ago, the 
study of English takes us back to ancient and rude 
days. How unfortunate, this, for the man who is a 
slave to the word modern ! In one of his lectures, the 
late Prof. Freeman declares his inability as a student 
of history to find out the difference between ancient 
and modern. A friend of his told him that modern 
history began with the French Revolution, whereas 
Baron Bunsen held that modern history began with 
the Call of Abraham. “ These, I think, are the two 
extremes, but I have heard a good many intermediate 
points suggested. Those perhaps are wisest who 
decline to definf at all.” 

As we divide and sub-divide and sub-sub-divide our 
educational matter owing to the progress of human 
knowledge, let us not lose sight of what I have termed 
capability of feeling and capability of knowing. He 
who has stood on the tiny island of Iona feels the truth 
of a fine passage in Samuel Johnson in which the 

had been breaks down, for the 

V44 Vj V » W4 J( V4 UW \J f certain prejudices shown else- 
where ; and, like Johnson, he is conscious that the spot is 
indeed sacred to the world. To stroll across the Strat- 
ford fields, rich in verdure and dotted with statcly 
trees, to Anne Hathaway’s cottage at Shottery. to 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



r 93 



climb the Wartburg and tread its chapel and Sanger- 
saal, to enter the minster at Aachen and gaze on the 
slab inscribed with the two words “ Carolo Magno,’’ 
draws him who has any capability of feeling very near 
to the presence of Shakspere and St. Elizabeth of Hun- 
gary and Luther and Karl the Great. The emotions 
awakened in such spots as these I have thought to be 
the emotions best worth living for. But true vital 
feeling is denied to any one of us without a certain 
amount of knowledge and training, an amount which 
varies with the individual, unless we happen to be 
poets or geniuses by nature, which, I am assuming) 
most of us are not. Those to whom the Romanesque 
of the Dom of Spier does not differ from the Gothic oi 
the Cathedral of Rheims, and who go to both churches 
simply because they are churches which the world 
sometimes talks about, are blind to secrets of a cycle 
of human thought. Equally blind are those who do 
not know what symbolism to expect in the details 
which lie around them there. In the Exhibition of 
the Royal Academy in London last year, one of the 
most striking pictures was an Annunciation by Hacker. 
How has the modern painter treated an ancient sub- 
ject which has been painted scores of times? Is Mary 
standing by the fountain, or is she placed in a lowly 
room after the realistic mode of the German school ? 
Is the symbolical vessel of water standing at the foun- 
tain’s edge, or not ? After what type is Gabriel 
painted, and how is he clad ? Does he bear a lily or a 
sceptre in his hand ? To ask such questions as these 
and many more arise from them, is a proof of the feel- 
ing that such subjects as the Annunciation represent 
modes of thought, and attempt to symbolize scenes 
around which the world’s spiritual life once centered- 
We may, and some of us no doubt do, prefer a High' 
land landscape of MacWhirter to an Annunciation or a 
Pieta ; but if we hang the works of ancient schools on 
our walls and profess to admire them, we ought at 
least to know and to feel something of their symbolism, 
their meaning. 

Chas. E. Moyse. 



THE B.A. QUEEN. 

You must wake aud call me early, call me early, mother dear ; 
For to-morrow’ll be the happiest day of all my senior year ; 

Of all my college years, mother, the gladdest, merriest day ; 

For I’m to get my B.A., mother, I’m to get my B.A. 

There’s many a name stands high they say, but none so high as 
mine ; 

There’s Smith’s and Jones’ and Robertson’s, aud Brown’s and 
Tomson’s shine ; 

But none so high as Sister Mary’s in all the list they say, 

So I’m to get my B.A., mother, I’m to get my B.A. 

T’11 not. sleep much to-night, mother, aud early I’ll awake, 

»v» ran me when the day begins to break : 

I’ve to dress ana ao my hair, get flowers aud deck myself so 
gay, 

For I’m to get my B A., mother, I’m to get my B.A. 

They say I wrote the most, mother, and all I wrote was right, 
I-m sure I am a clever girl aud have a future bright. 

The girls are cruel-hearted, but I care not what they say, 

For I’m to get my B.A., mother, I’m to get my B.A. 



They say I may forget myself, but that can never be ; 

They say I will be shaky, mother — what is that to me ? 

There’s many an older person shakes on convocation day, 

And I’m to get my B.A., mother, I’m to get my B.A. 

Papa and you will go with me to-morrow to the hall, 

And all my friends and cousins too, and aunts and uncles all ; 
The professors and the students come from every faculty, 

For I’m to get my B.A., mother, I’m to get my B.A. 

The junior lecturer looks round aud twirls his fair mustache ; 
And underneath his trencher thinks he’s cutting quite a dash ; 
And the Dean of the Faculty shiues like fire in Trinity’s gown 
so gay, 

And I’m to get my B.A., mother, I’m to get my B.A. 

The rest are pleased, although, mother, they only make a pass 
Oh ! I wish I had my medal here to see it iu the glass ! 

Aud I’m to stand in front and read the Valedictory, 

And I’m to get my B.A., mother, I’m to get my B.A. 

All the Freshmen, mother, ’ll be fresh and green and still, 

And the Junior and the Sophomore will shout for Old McGill, 
And the Science man in the back of the hall on a little tin horn 
will play, 

For I’m to get my B.A., mother, I’m to get my B.A. 

So you must wake and call me early, call me early, mother 
dear ; 

To-morrow’ll be the happiest day of all my senior year ; 

Of all my college years, mother, the gladdest, merriest day, 

For I’m to get my B.A., mother, I’m to get my B.A. 

CAP’N GOUN. 



INNOCENTS ABROAD. 

( Conclusion) . 

Having got all our papers in order, we must make 
up our mind what classes we will take. There is an 
official time table published which can be obtained 
from the booksellers, and from this, by dint of hard 
study, some information may be obtained. If our 
“ Innocent ’ ’ becomes stranded among the shoals of 
the K. K. Universitat, we would advise him to apply 
for advice to the Rev. Mr. Gordon, the clergyman sent 
to Vienna by the Edinburgh Students’ Missionary 
Society, and we would here like to bear testimony to 
the kindness and interest he displays in all students 
who come to Vienna. To return to the classes, those 
intending to take up the study of the eye cannot do 
better than to commence with the class held by Dr. 
Konigstein on normal ophthalmology. Here we get 
an opportunity of examining normal eyes and becom- 
ing familiar with methods and instruments. This 
gentleman never takes anyone’s word that he has seen 
the fundus, but insists on having it drawn with a red 
and blue pencil. Professor Fuchs has an excellent 
class on diseases of the eye. Professors Politzer and 
Gruber on the ear cannot be surpassed anywhere. 
Stork is now professor of diseases of the throat and 
nose. Schnitzler holds a similar class in the Polyclinic, 
which is close to the Hospital ; but the best class is 
held by Chiari,— in fact, so popular is this class that 
names are set down months ahead for any vacancy 
that may occur, for in most of these classes the number 
is limited. Dr. Julius Beregszaszi died last summer, 
leaving a vacancy that is hard to fill. For a number 



*94 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



of years he was chief assistant to Dr. Schnitzler, and 
lately had been elevated to the position of private 
docent. On him devolved the chief management of 
the clinic, and his courtesy had endeared him to all his 
pupils. The sense of loss at his untimely death is 
world-wide. 

Billroth and Albert in the surgical clinics have 
achieved a reputation by which their names have 
become familiar to all. Nothnagel is the professor of 
medicine. The assistants to these professors are 
always willing to get up classes, and as they have free 
access to the wards much excellent work can be done 
in this way. Kaposi and Hebra on skin and Neumann 
on venereal diseases are well known. Ziiman holds a 
class daily on morbid anatomy and pathology, and as 
there is an average of something like fifteen deaths 
daily in the hospital there is no lack of material. Post 
mortems are held on all cases at 9 a.m., and the results 
are demonstrated at this class in the afternoon. It is 
an exceedingly popular course, and as the number 
attending is strictly limited, it is probably the most 
difficult class to gain admittance to. The only way is 
to write some months before and ask for the first 
vacancy after the date of arrival. For gynaecology 
and midwifery, better work can probably be done in 
other places, as for instance in Munich under Winekel. 

A visit to Vienna would not be complete unless we 
made the acquaintance of Herr Kiehaupt, the accom- 
plished professor of languages. It is true that there is 
no royal road to the acquirement of the German 
language, but Herr Kiehaupt has a system which 
comes as near to being a royal road as anything can. 
He speaks English well ; but from the time he enters 
one’s room until the close of the lesson, he will not 
utter a word of it. His motto is: — “ Sprechen Sie 
immer Deutsch,” and he insists on his pupils living 
up to it. Another whose acquaintance must be made 
is Frau Geliy. She is practically an assistant to the 
professors of diseases of the throat, and is always to 
be found in the clinics. For a small fee she will come 
and give private instruction in the use of laryngeal 
instruments, and allow the beginner to practise on her 
own throat. She brings her own instruments and can 
guide the student’s hand in introducing the mirror or 
probe or in removing foreign bodies which she places 
in various parts of her larynx, being careful, however, 
to attach a thread to them, and not trust to the skill of 
the incipient laryngologist for their removal. 



Note by the Editor. — We expected to have an account of 
the clinics in Berlin to add to this, but we were unable to obtain 
it from the pilgrim who worshipped at that shrine. The 
secretary of the band returned home after the experiences in 
Vienna. 



DOWN IN A COAL MINE. 

There is perhaps no material used by man*.. 
has played so important a part, both directly and indi- 
rectly, in adding to our comfort and advancing our 
civilization, as has the “ stored sunshine ” preserved 
for man’s use in the coal seams of the earth. 



This mineral fuel is the prime factor in the use of 
steam power, the reduction and preparation for use of 
most of the metals, our railroad systems, modern navi- 
gation, and in fact in most of the great forces making 
towards our comfort 

Let us journey together into one of these vast store- 
houses of fuel in the bosom of our mother earth, and see 
how this wonderful substance is extracted and prepared 
for use. 

Supplying ourselves with the customary oil-lamps, 
which resemble diminutive teapots with abnormal 
spouts, we take our places (with all possible respect for 
our clothes) in one of a train of cars drawn by a pair of 
sturdy mules, and rapidly approach the gloomy tunnel, 
the notice board over which, “ No admittance,” irresist- 
ibly reminds us of the famous inscription seen by Dante, 
which seems to apply equally well here. 

As a result of this feeling we turn and take a linger- 
ing look over the sunny landscape, past the smoky 
mine-buildings to the rolling brown grass-covered bench 
land stretching far away to the West, to where the 
Rockies rear their sublime peaks clad in perpetual snow 
and “ sentinel the enchanted land ” beyond. 

Entering the drift, this beautiful scene vanishes, and 
we cast our thoughts forward to the unknown region we 
are to explore. We light our lamps, and while slowly 
ascending the grade endeavor to accustom our eyes to 
the all but Stygian darkness, and are inclined to wish 
for the piercing vision of our friend the nocturnal cat. 

Soon conies a roar and a rush, and the outcoming 
train passes with a sudden flare of light, and once again 
all is dark and still, until far ahead we see the twink- 
ling lights of the drivers and greasers at the “ parting-,” 
and emerge from the gloom into the glare and bustle 
of this meeting-place of the roads. 

Amid shouted directions to the mules, whistles and 
calls of “Gee” and “Haw,” which last call reminds 
one of the plaintive beseeching “ Aw ” of the Italian 
donkey driver, we “ change engines” and resume our 
journey. 

Rattling at full speed down grades and pulling slowly 
up again, we come at last in sight of the weird little 
figure of the trapper boy, sitting at his door in a uni- 
form of greasy black which reflects the rays of his lamp 
nearly as well as the bright tin oil-can and “ grub-pail ” 
at his side. He whistles the signal to advance, in a 
high falsetto most trying to the tympanum, and the 
door bangs to behind us, leaving him once more to his 
loneliness and the darkness. 

At length the end of our journey of about a mile is 
reached, and we hear the dull thud of the mining- 
machines and the scream of escaping air far up one of 
the rooms to our right. 

Let us look at this digger of ” dusky diamonds.” 

Approach the face and you will see along glistening 
„,,n — 1 . r_ t high with a deepcut Qr „ ho ° 

neath it for about four feet. This 
is the work of the noisy little digger beside us, which is 
striking about 200 blows per minute with its sharp 
pointed pick, and, guided by the runner who holds the 
handles at the rear, is rapidly eating its way into the 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



i95 



hard coal, every now and then giving off a shower of 
sparks as it strike.-, a ball of pyrites or “sulphur,” as 
the miners say. 

Meanwhile the compressed air is screaming loudly as 
it escapes from its confinement, and there is no use ask- 
ing questions of our much enduring guide when near 
this spot ; so we move away, and learn that by using 
this system the cost of getting the coal is reduced one- 
third from that of the old man-power pick system. 

Near by the air is exhausting from a drill, with a 
squeal several octaves of this most unmusical scale 
higher than that from the machine ; and as from the 
next room comes the loud boom and the quiver of the 
air telling of a blast fired to bring down the coal mined 
by the machines an hour before, we say to ourselves, 
“ What wonders have been wrought in mining since 
the days of Agricola and De Re Metallica!” 

Wandering through the workings on foot, after run- 
ning our heads many times against timbers and low 
roofs, stepping ankle deep into unexpected ouddles of 
water, and burning our fingers in a vain attempt to trim 
our lamps after the manner of our conductor, we decide 
that we have seen enough for once, and take our places 
on a trip of loaded cars outbound, pulled by an active 
little mule with a wicked look in his eye, and evidently 
ready fora run. 

“ Take ’em away, Tom,” the greaser shouts, and with 
a shrill whistle to the mule we are off. 

Soon with a lash of the whip we start down a slope, 
a rushing mass of ten tons on a two per cent, grade. 

Faster and faster we rush along until the sturdy 
mule, at a swift gallop and with his long ears laid back, 
is barely able to keep his heels clear of the front car. 

Now our lamps are out with the rush of air, and in 
the dim light of the driver’s lamp all objects look eerie 
and spectral, and we see the timbers flying past over 
our heads with what seems an awful swiftness in the 
gloom of the low tunnel, and the roar ot the wheels is 
that of half a dozen trains on a bridge tcgether. 

Bye and bye a faint streak of blessed daylight is seen 
ahead, and then we rush suddenly into the bright sun- 
shine, and, when we are at last able to see again, realize 
fully, perhaps for the first time, how fair is the outside 
of this world of ours. 

Close at hand are the boilers and air-compressors 
which furnish power to this great plant, and on the 
other side the two fans which force the air coursing 
through all the workings to return laden with dust and 
smoke . 

Farther on we see the great winding-engines which 
are to drive the wire-rope that soon is to replace the 
shouting drivers and stubborn but faithful mules. 

Down to the tipple the cars are rapidly run, where 
d rattles over the screens, and is 
iuiv w-c-o sizes, and falling into the railroad 
cars on the track below is taken away to market as 
part of a long coal train, and we turn away, feeling that 
after what we have seen we know more than before of 
one of the world’s great industries. 

Sand Coulee, Montana. 

H. H. W. 



DEPART. 

Comme le voyageur d’un navire en partance 
Voguant vers un pays plus chaud qu’il croit ailleurs. 
Loin d’un amour qui fuit dans une brume intense 
Je me livre au courant %*ers des amours meilleurs. 



Un vent voluptueux, charge de griseries, 

F.ndort le So -venir cruel des jours d£funts 
Et m’incite a songer aux prochaines prairies 
Ou sexhalent, des fleurs, tant d’inconnus parfums. 



Je vais. Et palpitants comme des hirondelles, 
Des oiseaux de passage ont des caresses des ailes 
Et des accouplements pleins d’exquises lemons. 



Mais voici qu’il circule une odeur de fruits rares ! 

Et Tapproche du port me couvre de frissons, 

Du port ou deux yeux clairs brillent comme deux phares. 

B. B. 



WHAT IS “ STILL LIFE ?” 

Attempts have been made from time to time to put 
into words that which will express clearly the meaning 
of a name or term. At times this can most effectually 
be done, by showing definitely what the opposite is 
and from that inferring what the first term is. 

One of our lecturers tells a little episode which will 
illustrate fairly the point in question. 

“ In the summer of 189 — , I was out on the geolo- 
gical survey, in company with a friend of mine and 
former class-mate. We were enjoying ourselves first 
rate until we got into a somewhat sandy hole. So far 
as I was concerned it was all right, but Bob was too 
much in demand to suit his comfort. 

One night we had just turned in, when my friend 
started to his feet with a savage yell ; I struck a light, 
and helped him to roll up his shirt sleeve as carefully as 
possible, very slowly we pfoceeded, when, wait now — 
hup ! Here he is ! and down went Bob's finger on the 
little chap that wasn’t there, as he found out after 
relieving that part of his fore-arm of the epidermis ; 
but the sudden change of my friend’s posture to grip 
his shoulder showed that the spring board had not 
been omitted from this nimble creature’s appendages. 

We went even more cautiously about trapping him 
this time, knowing what we had to deal with. “ Steady 
now, let me try this time ; ” you see the chase was 
becoming exciting, — quietly, hup ! here he is now, he 
must be dead. But no ! we caught nothing. 

Immediately our forces were called in another direc- 
tion, the enemy was drawing blood again, and Bob’s 
temper was anything but improved by my evident 
enjoyment of the hunt. This time we took every pre- 
caution to hem him in ; and gathering him into a fold of 
the linen squeezed him to death as it were not , for there 
he appeared small and distinct as life, and in pure 
sight, only for an instant though, for by a frantic move- 
ment on Bob’s part I knew he had again been woun- 
ded ; and, flinging aside all caution and manoeuvre, he 
charged in desperation upon the enemy, but after 
eighteen engagements he was still at large. 

My friend from time to time made ejaculations in 



196 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



German which I did not understand, and which he 
hadn’t time to translate. A hard, determined look 
settled around his lips, and on his manly brow great 
drops of perspiration stood. 

By this time the small gymnast was becoming 
rather bold, so perched himself on Bob’s left ear, and 
seating himself comfortably began wiping the remains 
of the carnage from his labrum. While thus unguarded 
we slew the enemy, and then he represented “ Still 
Life,” before, he did not. 

A. de la Nod. 



MOLSON HALL. 

(Written by a Freshman after reading a curious poem 
by the late Lord Tennyson, entitled Loeksley Hall). 

Comrades, come with me a little on this balmy April morn ; 
Come, all clad in sable garments, looking ghastly and forlorn. 

’Tis the place and all within it ; as of old the Dean doth call, 

To the several years assigning seats within the Molson Hall. 

Molson Hall where the assistant Janitor has borne the packs 
Of the fatal foolscap paper fastened with the brazen tacks. 

Many a night within my chamber, as my oil-can will attest, 
Have I bent me o’er the pages, nor bethought me of my rest. 

Many a night I labored, fearing lest my hopes again should 
fade ; 

But I battled on, determined, undespairing, undismayed, 

Though the sessions I had tried it like a fruitful land reposed. 
Yet I clung to all the present, for the year perchance it closed. 

And I looked into the future far as human eye can see, 

And I caught the distant glimmer of the tin with my degree. 

In the Spring the sleepy lecture changes to the sharp exam., 

In the Spring the student’s fancy gimly turns to thoughts of 
cram. 

In the Spring his former pleasures are forgotten while he plods, 
In the Spring he goes no longer to his seat among the gods. 

In the Spring his tastes abandon all those dear delights of self, 
In the Spring his mug is empty and his pipe is on the shelf. 

In the Spring his silent banjo ceases merrily to sound, 

I11 the Spring his sweetheart wonders why he doesn’t come 
around. 

Comfort ? Comfort scorned of students ! this is truth the Scrip- 
tures tell — 

Moses must have been to college some time when he knew so 
well — 

That much study is a burden that at best doth only tend 
To a wearying of the flesh, and books are made that have no 
end. 

Plug thy memory, best to learn it, best thy brain be put to proof 
In the dead unhappy night and when the cat is on the roof. 

* * * 

But what’s this which now I turn to, blighting more of years 
like these ? 

Every question is a problem only solvable with keys 

Every question is a problem which I cannot hope to 
I have but a muddled memory : how ? Oh ! how shall I get 
through ? 

Here at least where trouble thickens, nothing. Oh ! to take 
matric. 

In some little institution where the fellows never stick 1 



No ! I rather hold it better I should work for my B.A. : 
Better fifty years McGill than but four sessions ta’en away ! 

And I see the glorious object of my life hath not yet set, 

For one more examination in September I can get. 

Hoping then for better fortune, farewell now to Molson Hall 
Till I come again to write on supplemental in the Fall. 

CAP’N GOUN. 



A COLLEGE IDYLL. 

“ Woman, experience might have told me, 

That all must love thee who behold thee.” 

That was the motto of one of the best fellows that 
ever went to College. His fate seems all the more 
hard for the very reason that he was such a good 
fellow. It wasn’t that he was “ facile pttnceps ” in 
everything. But his lithe figure was always pro- 
minent in football, and his ready wit made him a quick 
scholar, although he did not always stand first. It is 
hard to say why he was so popular. I suppose personal 
magnetism and his unvarying good humor had a 

good deal to do with it. His name w*as Henry , 

I won’t tell his surname, because his generation has not 
yet passed from College. We used to call him “ Hal ” 
or “ Hal, old man.” He was seldom called “ Harry,” 
and never Henry unless by his maiden aunt. It was 
in his third year that this event occurred. I wish I 
could tell it better. But I might in that case add 
something from my own imagination, so it may after 
all be best that I am compelled to keep to the plain un- 
garnished truth. 

He dropped into my room one evening, — we were 
always glad when Hal happened our way, — and threw 
himself lazily into an easy chair near the window. I 
asked him for the news, in the abrupt manner that is 
common to men of the world and College “ boys,” and 
he made the usual reply. We had both been to a 
Reception in the Redpath Museum the evening before, 
and I had noticed that a certain young lady had a 
peculiar attraction for Harry. I had seen him dis- 
appear behind the cases in the corner by the Rosetta 
Stone in her company. I commenced to quiz. But 
he stopped me by saying that he had come on purpose 
to tell me about “ it.” He didn’t specify whether “ it” 
referred to the lady, or their mutual friendship, or his 
fascination. I decided to let him tell his own story, 
so did not interrupt. 

He had met her, he said, the autumn before at the 
house, of some friends. They had all gone for a walk 
over the Mountain and returned for afternoon tea. 

Misi > ’s bright repartee and vivaciousness found 

an easy victim in Henry. He found the cup of tea,— it 
was taken in a bow-window overlooking Sherbrooke 
st.— a dangerous pleasure- It recalled to his mind 
these pretty lines : — 

WifViin flip* pirn frr OUlld.S of tea. 

w mini luc eyes no giound there lies 
Of hope for me ! 

When tea’s accompanied in this wise 
By Sirens’ eyes. 

Accept the cup but don’t look up, 

There danger lies. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



197 



Of course he shouldn’t have looked for encourage- 
ment so soon ; but it’s a way men have. He met her 
several times before this Reception, and then their 
friendship, no longer platonic, was, by mutual consent, 
replaced by something more intimate. I naturally 
told him that it was the effect of the softened light^; 
that the contemplation of the skulls of departed races 
had unbalanced his brain ; that the shadow of the 
Megatherium ; but he was too far gone to be 

moved by such pleadings. And as his subsequent 
conduct plainly showed that he was lost to us, I ceased 
to argue. He used to come in now and then and ex- 
patiate on the charms of “ Daisy.” One time he 
brought a valentine he received from her. It was 
painted by herself, and represented a student to whom 
a dozen or so little “ Loves ’’ were bowing and crying 
“Chassis I.” When I saw that, in my ignorance of 
feminine ways, I said that she must reciprocate his 
love, and since he was so fortunate bore my loss with 
stoicism. 

I went away in the spring, it was my last year in that 
Faculty, and I needed a rest before starting on again. 
I did not hear from or of him for more than six months. 
Then I got a very sad letter from him. It ran : — “ I 
lived in a fool’s paradise,” etc. You all know the 
symptoms, mayhap have passed through them, so I need 

not give any more of that “ I went to see 

“ Miss when I returned to college, and was very 

“ graciously received. * How do you do, Mr. ?’ 

*' she said. ‘ I hope you have enjoyed your holidays?’ 
“She was perfectly self-possessed or I should have 
“ thought she was acting. Was this the Daisy I left? 

“ etc It is well that I have been 

‘‘ busy or I should have become a misanthrope ” 

I have reached the end of Byron’s ode. 

“ This motto shall forever stand : 

Woman, thy vows are traced in sand.” 



Daisy married a clever young doctor that winter. I 
returned the following spring, and saw Harry take his 
degree. He was pale but in good health and apparent 
good spirits. What surprised me most was to see him 
strolling down the Avenue with Daisy and her husband 
after Convocation, discussing something that seemed 
to interest them greatly. This was explained by a card 
I got a week or so after : — 



Mr. and Mrs 



Request the pleasure of your Company at the marriage of 
their daughter 

— May — 
to 



Mr. Henry 



WYDOWN. 



. ~~IE ST. LAWRENCE BRIDGE- 

i_,asi iVAuuucty diLernoon several of the 4th year 
Science decided to make an excursion to the above 
Bridge works Prof. Bovey kindly gave them letters 
to Mr. Peterson of the C.P.R. and Mr. Duggan of the 
Dominion Bridge Co , which was all that was necessary 
to get permission to cross over the St. Lawrence Bridge 
and to go through the Bridge Co’s, works. The party 



left town at noon and arrived at the office of the Dom- 
inion Bridge Co. in good time, where they found Mr. 
Duggan, who not only gave them permission but ac- 
companied them through the works. After looking 
over a number of designs, including those for the new 
Wellington Street bridges, the party were shown the 
Emery Testing Machine, which is the same as the one 
in our Testing Laboratory. 

Mr. Duggan then took the party over to the shops, 
where all the machines were seen in operation, viz., 
punching and riveting machines, shears, hammers and 
rollers. The enormous power required for running all 
these* is a 100 H.P. engine with a twelve foot fly-wheel 
and a 70 H. P. air compressor, all the riveting being 
done by compressed air. 

The party then left the works, and after a walk of 
about a mile arrived at the St. Lawrence Bridge. The 
Bridge itself is about three-fourths of a mile long, and 
consists of eight deck spans of the Double Intersection 
Pratt type each two hundred and forty feet long ; and 
a girder continuous over five piers, the side spans being 
each two hundred and sixty-nine feet, and the middle 
or channel spans each four hundred and eight feet, the 
latter being “ through ” trusses. In crossing the Bridge 
all the details were looked into as carefully as the 
limited time would allow and many “pointers” ob- 
tained for future use. 

The next point of interest after re-crossing this 
Bridge was the Swing Bridge where the C.P.R. crosses 
the Lachine Canal. This one is of the triangular 
pattern and is two hundred and forty feet long. The 
important feature here is the rocker links, at the centre, 
which tend to equalize the pressure on the turntable, 
and to examine which several ot the party mounted to 
the top of the truss, a height of forty feet. 

The party then took the train home, satisfied that 
they had been well repaid for the loss of an afternoon 
so close to exams. 

L. G. 

CORRESPONDENCE. 

The Editor of the McGill Fortnightly. 

Dear Sir : — 

In many Universities journalism is encouraged by the offer- 
ing of prizes for the best contribution to the different Uni- 
versity publications. And since competition is one of the 
greatest incentives to hard work, it naturally produces good 
results. I would therefore suggest to the incoming Boards, both 
Editorial and Financial, that something of this sort be adopted 
here. You are well aware yourself, sir, of the lack of any 
active interest in the Fortnightly among the majority of our 
fellow-students. They are content to read their paper and 
criticize the editorials, but they decline to exert themselves in 
its behalf. This failing may be due to modesty, or it may be 
due to indolence, — that is not for me to decide ; whatever the 
cause, the fact remains that on the Editors is thrown almost 
the entire burden of the work. Their duties should rather be 
those of choosing and arranging contributions from the stu- 
dents whom they represent, 

I enclose an extract from a letter I have just received from 
Yale. Of course we cannot expect to arrive at such results, but 
the account of the Yale Daily News may be of service to the 
Board. 

Yours truly, 

A. Rives Hall- 



198 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



The ) ale Daily News\$> published six days in the week, and 
contains items of interest pertaining to the College, culled from 
other papers sometimes ; it is very conservative. 

There is no comic side to it, — a feature which, together with 
trivial personalities and jokes, has always been avoided. As its 
name implies, it merely aims to give the news of the college 
day, such as the Logs for instance, athletic news, etc. Then 
too, it contains editorials daily on subjects, some of greater 
some of less importance. The paper was established according 
to law, and has all the rights and privileges of such a paper. 

The news is gathered, not as you would suppose by the 
acting editors, and associate editors, but by those who would be 
editors. That is a system of competition. This system is 
carried on in some such way as this : Those who compete for 
the editorships leave their daily coutributions at the News 
office before nine o’clock at night. The editor whose duty it 
is to make up the paper for that night selects his news from the 
contributions and writes an editorial or two himself. If two 
competitors have the same piece of news and one gets his ver- 
sion in the paper, the other is given credit for his work. By 
this I mean that a regular system of credit is carried on, 
editorials being valued at 5 times as much as common news, and 
Logs are in a class of their own. At the end of the year (with 
us the ist of March) the new editors are elected according to 
their credit accounts, he having the greatest credit account 
being chosen. As to the number of editors I think there is no 
specification ; but it is generally understood that there shall be 
eight or nine elected annually, the majority coming from the 
College and two or three from Sheffield Scientific School which 
is part of the University. Regarding the grades of editors, the 
Board of Editors is composed of Seniors always- That is, the 
’93 men (Seniors) retire at the March election, and the present 
Board of Associate Editors ( ’94 men, Juniors) will become the 
Board of Editors as being incoming Seniors. They may not all 
be Juniors, but the Board of Editors must all be Seniors. Then 
at the March election the elections are made from the present 
Sophomore Class, ’95, as being incoming Juniors. I think you 
see the plan of election. 

The officers are Chairman and Financial Editor. The Chair- 
man directs the general policy of the paper; the Financial 
Editor attends to the Finances. The latter is, I believe, excused 
from Editorial work. 

The receipts, or rather the proceeds or gains, of the paper go 
to the Board of Editors on retirement. Tuis means about $500 
a piece at Yale, so that it is worth while, from a pecuniary point 
of view, to be an editor. Besides, it is a great honor, one of the 
best of college honors, to be an editor of the News. 

SOCIETIES. 

YOUNG men’s CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION. 

Mr. Frank J. Day has been chosen to represent the 
Association at the Northfield Conference in July. 



Students can be of material aid to the Association 
by sending the names of any intending Students they 
may meet during the summer, to Mr. P. C. Leslie, 31 1 
Peel street, Montreal. 

Instead of the usual Sunday afternoon meeting at 
4.30 on April 9th, a united meeting with the City 
Association will be held at 4.15 This meeting will be 
one of unusual interest, as the speaker is to be Mr. J. 
Campbell White, the recently appointed Gen rr ' 
tary of Young Men’s Christian Association 
Mr. White is a college man and was for some time 
travelling secretary of the Students’ Volunteer Move 
ment. We look for a large turn out of Students. 

In order that the work of a College Association may 



be prosecuted vigorously and the best results accom- 
plished, a General Secretary, who can give all or nearly 
all his time to the work, is now recognized as a most 
essential factor. Nearly all the College Associations 
in the United States employ such an offical, and in 
our own country Toronto University Association has 
had one for some years back. Heretofore in McGill 
we have had no General Secretary, but when next 
session opens we expect to begin a new and better era 
n our work, when we will have a general secretary 
who will give nearly all his time to the supervision of 
the affairs of the Association. Resulting from the 
visit of Mr. Mott at the time of the Provincial Conven- 
tion in January, a movement was set on foot to see 
what amount could be raised among the Students 
towards the salary necessary, several Graduates having 
expressed their willingness to make up the balance. 
The response from the Students was most hearty, and 
in a short time 80 per cent, of the amount required was 
promised. The remaining 20 per cent, will be made 
up by Graduates who were interested in Association 
work during their College days. A room in the east 
wing of the Arts Building has been granted to the 
Association to be used as a Secretary’s office. It is 
the intention of the Executive Committee, as soon as 
some necessary changes are made in the Constitution, 
to engage Mr. Percy C. Leslie to fill this position. Mr. 
Leslie has had considerable experience in Y.M.C A. 
work, and is well qualified both in that and in other 
respects for the office. 



MCGILL GLEE AND BANJO CLUP. 

The need for a University Glee and Banjo Club in 
McGill has long been felt very strongly by all in- 
terested in our College Music and College Societies, 
Such clubs have proved themselves in most Universi- 
ties to be among the strongest ties between the College 
and the outside public, serving to keep the University 
prominently before their notice, and shewing that the 
Students can excel in other lines as well as in Classical, 
Medical or Mathematical learning, 

The Applied Science Banjo Club, which has enjoyed 
so successful a season this term, feeling that it is only 
necessary for somebody to take the initiatory step, and 
such an institution will at once receive the enthusiastic 
support of all, has at its annual business meeting 
adopted a new Constitution, by which, amongst other 
important changes, the title of the Club is changed as 
above. 

The Club will now be open for membership to the 
whole University ; and as the Constitution limits the 
number of members to a dozen in each department of 
the Club, a splendid combination is suie to be obtained 
which, with the proposed organized practising, will 
give a good report of itself next session. Any commu- 

e to joining or details of infor- 
ressed to the President, Mr. F. 

Lambert, Science ’94. 



MOOT COURT DEBATING SOCIETY. 

At the last meeting of the Society held in the 






McGill fortnightly. 



'99 






Faculty rooms on Monday, March 6th, the following- 
subject was submitted for discussion 

A, a bank clerk in an incorporated bank in New 
Vork, embezzles $50,000 of U. S. greenbacks and 
$10,000 in U. S. gold eagles and half eagles, and sends 
t le whole in a package by express to Montreal to B, 
who had written him urging him to do the act. 

B receives and conceals the package in Montreal, and 
is shortly joined by A. Knowing that they are 
watched, they tell C the facts and where the package 
is, and request him to get it and conceal it in a safer 
place in the city, which lie does. But not until he had 
first taken from it, unknown to A and B, $10,000 of the 
greenbacks and half the gold for his own use. 

Prosecute the offenders under our new Criminal Act 
for the offences for which they are guilty, adducing 
the proper proof to supply what is not covered by the 
above statement of facts. 

For Crown. For Defence. 

A. Geoffrion, S. W. Jacobs, 

B. Sawyer. r. b. Hutcheson. 

A motion to quash the indictment was made at the 
opening of the Court, and on behalf of the Defendant, 
and after a lengthy discussion, the indictment was set 
aside by the learned judge, Dean Trenholme, who 

then proceeded to the merits of the case. 



YOUNG WOMAN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION. 



The semi-annual business meeting of the Y.M.C.A. 
was held on Thursday, March 2nd, 1893. Reports of 
the winter’s work were submitted by the various Com- 
mittees and approved by the members. 

The election of officers for session ’93-94 was then pro- 
ceeded with, resulting as follows : — 



President, 
Vice “ 
Cor. Sec., 
Rec. “ 
Treasurer, 



Miss Ogilvy 
Miss Travis 
Miss Whiteaves 
Miss Henderson 
Miss J. Brown. 



The meeting was then adjourned. 



DELTA SIGMA SOCIETY. 

The usual meeting of this Society was held on Thurs- 
day, March 9th, the President in the chair. 

The business of the meeting was then transacted, the 
surplus funds of the Society being voted to the Theodora 
Missionary Society. 

MissM. Macdonald, B.A., then read a very excellent 
paper on “ Music, its History and Influence,” written by 
Miss Jessie Macdonald, Arts ’93. This paper gave a 
thorough and interesting account of the gradual devel- 
nnmpn 1- nf this faculty in man’s nature. 

— - — thoven’s life was given by Miss I. 
Brittain, Arts ’93 and the hearts of her hearers beat in 
sympathy for the King of music, whose loneliness was 
perhaps the means of procuring for mankind the finest 
production as yet known to the musical world. 

An impromptu debate resolved, “ That Happiness 
predominates over misery,” was supported on the affir- 
mative by Misses Botterell and Denoon, on the negative 



by the Misses Brown and Millar. Vote taken in favo r 
of the negative. 

Miss James, the retiring president, then spoke a few 
farewell words of encouragement and admonition, and 
with three cheers for the president the members ad- 
journed. 



MONTREAL VETERINARY MEDICAL ASSOCIATION. 

The regular fortnightly meeting of the above Society 
was held in the usual place at 6 and 8 Union ave., at 
8 p in., evening of March 8th. Dr. Mills in the chair. 
Dr. D. McEachran and Dr. Adami were also present. 

The principal business of the evening was the ques- 
tion of buying books for the library ; and as the financial 
standing of the Society was good, it was decided to 
replenish the library by some thirty volumes. 

Mr. Tracy read a paper on pleurisy. He took up the 
different phases of the disease at length. 

Dr. Adami gave the members some valuable patho- 
logical information. 

Mr. Wylie read a paper on Swine Fever. His paper 
showed that he had left no stone unturned in search of 
information on this subject. He went minutely into 
details on the subject of the virus, its virulence, and 
also to what extent inoculation acted as a preventative 
of the disease. 

Mr. Campbell was to have reported a case on Pneu- 
monia at this meeting, but was unable to be present on 
account of sickness. 



UNDERGRADUATES LITERARY SOCIETY. 

The work of the Philosophical and Literary Society 
was very fittingly brought to a close on P'riday even- 
ing, 10th inst., with an address on “ The Function of 
College Societies,” by Dr. Murray. When Dr. Murray 
speaks, it becomes every student to pause and listen, 
but, strange to say, less than a score were present at 
this closing meeting. Of course the immense benefit 
derived from two hours, study at the end of the week, 
when nature is crying out from sheer oppression, is 
infinitely greater than that of listening to a carefully 
prepared address, by one of the most pleasing and most 
scholarly lecturers of the day. 

After dwelling a moment on some reminiscences of his 
own College days, the speaker went on to say that the 
function of the college society is merely a part of the 
function of all University life, viz., to promote national 
education. But the ideal University education has a 
distinctive character. 

It does not encourage a mere passive reception of 
knowledge, but seeks to stimulate the student to 
develop all the powers and faculties with which nature 
has endowed him. This is accomplished by prescribing 
such studies as those of Classics and Mathematics, 
which involve much independent research and active 
exertion on the part of the student ; by the practical, 
rather than the theoretical, study of natural science ; 
and by developing in every student a feeling of personal 
responsibility. University life is essentially democratic, 
and has always been so, even from the days of Plato 
and Aristotle. Accordingly it develops a spirit of 



200 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



freedom and toleration, a freedom, however, that is not 
synonymous with licentiousness and lawlessness, but 
one which identifies itself with law and order, since 
nothing is more impressed on the mind of the student 
than the fact of the invariability and the universality 
of law throughout the world. This phase of College 
education was dwelt on at some length, and many 
interesting facts were drawn from the past history of 
the most eminent European universities to illustrate 
this point. The speaker then went on to say that there 
was nothing in the College course which tended to 
produce a fuller development of this spirit of freedom, 
this independence of thought and action, than the 
College Society. There, the whole control of the 
society devolves on the student ; and the practice of 
disputation is admirably adapted to develop his latent 
powers, sharpen his mind and enable him to look at 
questions from every point of view. It also gives use- 
ful training in the systematic management of business* 
and, in drawing the student from the privacy of his stu- 
dy, to brush against his fellows, it cultivates a breadth 
of sympathy, a respect for the feeliugs and opinions of 
others, that is hard to obtain in any other department 
of College life. 

At the close of his interesting and instructive 
address, of which the above is a very inadequate 
synopsis, a hearty vote of thanks was tendered Dr. 
Murray, and the work of the Literary Society was 
brought to a close for this session with the usual votes 
of thanks for the retiring officers, and a few words of 
advice on the future working of the society, by some 
members of the graduating class. 



MCGILL MINING SOCIETY. 

The last meeting for this session of the McGill Min- 
ing Society was held on March 12th. A paper was 
read by Mr. T. Brown, on Rock Drill and Air Com- 
pressors. The paper was illustrated with photographs 
and blackboard sketches, and called forth much inter- 
esting discussion. At the close of the paper refresh- 
ments were served, and the remainder of the evening 
was very pleasantly occupied with an impromptu pro- 
gramme of speeches and songs. 

Farewell speeches were given by Messrs. Feather- 
stone and Herdt, the members of the Society belonging 
to the graduating class, and were very warmly received 
considering the amount of ice-cream consumed. 

On Saturday, the 4th inst., about 20 members of the 
Society spent the afternoon at the works of the Rock 
Drill Co. at St. Henri, where Mr. Gilman, the manager, 
very kindly had a compressor and drill running to give 
the students a demonstration of their practical working. 
Compressors and drills were examined in process of 
construction, and a new machine pick for coal-mining 
attracted much attention. All left the wc 
pleased with what they had seen, and hoped unai me 
Society would be able to organize similar excursions 
next session. 

The society’s progress has fulfilled the most sanguine 
hopes of its originators, and the members of the Society 



are asked to keep notes of the work in which they may 
be occupied during the coming summer, as they will 
likely be called upon for papers next year. By this 
means the Society will become still more prosperous and 
the meetings even more entertaining than at present. 



APPLIED SCIENCE GLEE CLUB. 

The first annual meeting of the Applied Science 
Glee Club was held on Tuesday, the 7th March last, 
the President, Mr. Featherstone, in the chair. 

The chief items of business were the reports of the 
Secretary and Treasurer and the election of officers for 
the ensuing year. Both reports were very interesting, 
and showed that the Club was in a very flourishing 
Condition ; the Secretary’s stated that during the year 
the Club had performed successfully at the Football 
Concert and at the opening of the new Science Build- 
ings, and had enjoyed a good supper at the Club House ; 
while the Treasurer’s showed us to be free from debts 
and to have a creditable balance on hand. 

An important suggestion to the new committee in the 
Secretary’s report was that they should endeavor to 
obtain a piano for the Club ; this will likely be taken 
up with a good deal of vigor, and it is hoped that be- 
fore the opening of next session the Club will have a 
piano of their own, which will place it in a firmer posi- 
tion than at present. 

The election of officers resulted as follows : — 

Hon. Pres. Dr. Harrington 
Hon. Treas. Prof. Chandler 
Pres. J. H. Larmouth, ’94 

Vice-Pres. K. F. Kenny, ’96 
Sec. W. A. Duff, ’94 

Treas. F. M. Becket, ’95 

After some discussion it was decided to lower the 
membership fee, in the hope that a large number might 
be induced to join next year. 



SPORTING COLUMN. 

MCGILL UNIVERSITY TNNNIS CLUB. 

At the annual meeting of the McGill University 
Lawn Tennis Club the following officers were elected 
for the coming year : — 

Honorary-president — Sir Wm. Dawson. 

President — C. H. McLeod, Ma.E. 

Vice-president— Dr. G. Gordon Campbell. 

Secretary — A. R. Holden. 

Treasurer — Dr. D. J. Evans. 

Committee — Messrs. Skaife, B.A.Sc.; Molson and 
Mills. The courts of the Club, which will probably be 
open for play by the 24th of May, will be in a much 
better condition this vear than formerly, as the Club’s 

een spent largely in building 
ana cuicimg couns ; uui this season particular care is, 
to be given to perfecting the five double courts already 
laid out. It is intended to procure a very competent 
groundsman, who will have the courts in order for the 
season before the end of May. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



201 



MCCtIU. CRICKET CLUB CONCERT. 

It having come to the ears of the sporting editor, 
that the University Cricket Club are about to give a 
concert for the purpose of raising funds to put the col- 
lege campus in proper condition for cricket (and, we 
may say, for sporting events in general, as all sister 
clubs must be thereby benefited), this opportunity is 
taken to call on all members of the sporting fraternity 
and on the students in general, to aid, by their presence 
or subscription, in making of this venture of the Cricket 
Club the success it deserves to be. 

It is an uncontestable fact that this organization has 
acted long and unselfishly at putting the grounds into 
proper order, and the result of their labors is clearly 
evidenced by the improved condition of the whole 
campus. At the last meeting of the Athletic Associa- 
tion, their representative laid before the meeting the 
exact position of the Cricket Club in the matter, and 
requested assistance from the association. The propo- 
sition was considered, but owing to several difficulties 
in the way of making this grant, and to the general 
feeling that the care of the campus was one of the 
duties of the University authorities, no definite move 
was made. The Cricket Club have decided to remain 
no longer in doubt, and have set about raising the 
necessary funds in the manner above mentioned. 

The concert will take place on the evening of April 
7th in the large hall of the Montreal High School build- 
ing on Peel street, and as much of the best local talent 
has already been secured, the event will no doubt be an 
unqualified success. It is greatly to be desired that the 
undergraduate contingent should be large and enthir 
siastic. 



CRICKET AT MCGIEE. 

Owing to the fact that, with the exception of prac- 
tically but one class in the Faculty of Medicine, the 
undergraduates of McGill are dispersed pretty much 
all over the continent during the cricketing season, 
this eminent sport is left almost entirely to the resi- 
dent graduates to follow and enjoy. Consequently 
much of the information contained in this brief paper 
will be new to most students, and a short history may 
be expected of my subject. 

Cricket had been played intermittently at McGill 
during the summer months prior to the season of 1889, 
but with the formation of the present vigorous club in 
that year, the game first achieved a recognized stand- 
ing in connection with the University. The begin- 
nings were small. A meeting of a few graduates and 
medical students attending the summer session was 



day, M.D. (1891), treasurer. The University authori- 
ties kindly granted the use of the grounds, and further 
allowed a limited admission of 11011-University men as 
associate members. No sooner was the club organized 
than some of its past and present most active support- 
ers came forward. Of these the present President, Pro- 
fessor Moyse, and E- H. Hamilton, B.Ap.Sc-, an 
authority on all sport and identified with McGill’s best 
efforts in that line, were among the number. The latter 
became captain of the Club, and his leaving for New 
Jersey was a serious loss to cricket and University 
sports in general. 

During the first year of its existence, owing to a 
limited membership, a good deal of difficulty was 
experienced in meeting the Club’s match engagements. 
The results were, however, most satisfactory, for out of 
a total of thirteen matches played, not less than eleven 
were victories. All of these matches were with local 
clubs, and it was not until May, 1891, that games began 
to be played with outside clubs, such as Bishops 
College University and School, and Ottawa. The 
above excellent record in regard to matches has not 
suffered since, the results of the past season showing a 
total of fourteen successes out of seventeen games- 
For the first two years the Club was without either 
anything in the way of a pavilion or an attendant for 
the grounds, and but for the indefatigable labors 
of the Captain, who rolled, mowed, weeded and 
laid creases, the Club would have faied badly. With 
a growing membership and an increasing spirit for 
the game, there came a pavilion, water supply for the 
grounds with hose complete, and, lastly, the services 
of a professional for the grounds and play. With these 
advantages the corresponding improvement in play has 
been marked, and a few years of such progress will 
find the University Club sufficiently strong to cope 
with the best teams in Canada, and furnish its quota 
towards the eleven selected for the international match. 
Its two bowlers, C. J. Harrod and H. C. Hill, are hardly 
excelled, and while much remains to be done towards 
improvement in batting, H. C. Hill, J. F. Mackie and 
George Lyman are a difficult trio to dispose of, and 
several others are coming to the front with the 
“ willow.” 

As regards membership, the Club has a roll of some 
seventy-five names, the larger proportion of whom are 
graduates, while resident students and members of the 
summer session class in Medicine form no mean con- 
tingent. Among the list of graduate members are a 
Judge, several Professors, Q.C’s. and other notables. 
The membership fee is seven dollars for graduates and 
associates in active membership and two dollars for 



held in the office of a popular lawyer graduate early in 

result was the organization of the 
v -- C., which attained a membership 
of some thirty names before the close of the season. 
The officers elected for the first year were, Professor 
Ruttan, B.A., M D., president ; A. R. Oughtred, 
B.C.L. (the above mentioned popular graduate and 
always a sterling friend of the Club), vice-president ; F. 
W- Hibbard, M.A., B.CL, secretary; and V. Halli- 



undergraduates. Much above the ordinary expense of 
belonging to McGill’s sporting associations, but cricket 
is an expensive game, and yet none yields a better 
return for the time and money expended. 

And now a word as to the coming season. The 
. annual general meeting of the Club was held in the 
Law Faculty Rooms on March 1st. Unfortunately no 
undergraduates were present, and the work or re-organ- 
1 izing proceeded without them- Professor Moyse, 



202 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



B.A., who has labored most indefatigably on behalf of 
the Club, was re-elected president ; Mr. J. F- Mackie, 
B.A., B.CL-, vice-president; while the duties of the 
united office of secretary-treasurer were delegated to 
the writer, with Mr. George Lyman, a former Arts 
student, as his assistant. A Committee of four was 
elected to act with the first three officers, leaving a 
fifth committee-man, according to the constitution of 
the Club, to be elected from among the undergradu- 
ates. This Committee is now negotiating for the 
services of a professional, and to import direct from 
England the supplies required for the season- A con- 
siderable debt results from the past enterprise of the 
Club, but active measures are now being taken to wipe 
this off, and there is every expectation that ere play 
begins the Club will possess a clean sheet- 

Finally, as a University organization, the Cricket 
Club can claim to have done much to improve the state 
and appearance of the University grounds, to have 
associated together excellent elements both within and 
without the University in the pursuit of an elevating 
sport, and done not a little to raise the standard in 
Eastern Canada of the foremost of summer pastimes. 
It is deserving of the support of all lovers of cricket in 
McGill, and it is to be hoped the coming season will see 
a large accession of College men to the ranks of the 
McGill University C C- 

F. W- HIBBARD- 



FACULTY REPORTS. 

ARTS NEWS. 

The elocution contest will be held on the afternoon 
of April 27th. With that exception the class has sus- 
pended work for the session. The attendance during 
the past year is said to have been doubled ; and the in- 
terest and enthusiasm with which the students speak of 
the work surely reflects favorably upon the teaching of 
Mr. Stephen. 

The members of the third year entertain very kindly 
feelings towards Mr. Deeks for pushing the work in 
Zoology and getting through the course early. At the 
conclusion of the last lecture they took occasion to ex- 
press their appreciation of the lecturer in a most hearty 
manner. 



Dr. Eaton’s last work, a later book of exercises based 
upon the prose of Livy, is in use by the students of the 
third and fourth years. 



All Artsmen learn with sincere regret of the recur- 
rence of Dr. Cornish’s illness. The Greek students are 
anxious that he should recover in time for the examin- 
ation. 



Several students too, are on the sick- list 
Killaly, Mclver, Mansur, Lambly and Gilmour have 
all been compelled to desist from study. Mr. Killaly has 
been in the hospital with typhoid, and Mr. Mclver is 
confined to his bed with pleurisy while his English 
examinations are in progress. 



We are interested to hear of the “ playful way 
Science ’95 has of “ hustling ” the Artsmen. Probably 
some Freshman, while pondering abstractedly upon 
some subtle problem in metaphysics, or musing, absent 
minded, upon the beauties of Homer, has walked by 
mistake into the Science building and fallen into the 
hands of the sturdy blacksmiths of our sister faculty. 



Our pleurisy patient is not too sick to insist that his 
name is not Mud, but Won Lung, the Chinese washer 
man. 

The Honor English Students of the third year 
have entered the Donalda department. They have at 
least been permitted to cross the sacred precinct. 



The first donation towards the erection of a new Arts 
building will be derived from a sale of the collection of 
old iron, belonging to the Mathematical department. 



brevities. 

“The melancholy days are come.’’ 

“ Examinations, when the man is weighed as in a 
balance. ’ ’ 

Soon the mode of salutation will not be, “ How do 
you do? ” but “ How did you do ? ” 



DONALDA NEWS- * 

No one can enter the precincts of the East wing just 
now without being conscious of the subdued current of 
excitement which animates the whole system as it 
were. It is rumored that the “send off” to the year 
of ’93 is to take the form of an entertainment which at 
present is embryonic. 

Later news . — The embryo has been crushed. 

The motto for the Logic class is “ one at a time.” 

The question yet to be decided is which one ? 

Prof, at German. — “That novel cultivates a sickly 
sentimental feeling especially among the young.’’ 

Donalia (taking up her pen). — “ What did you say 
the name of it was, Herr Professor ? ” 

Donalda (at Science Conversazione) : — “ Oh dear ! 
what shall I do ? I’ve lost my chaperone.” 

2nd Donalda. — “Oh, never mind, she’ll turn up all 
right.” 

1st Donalda. — “ But it wasn’t a she, it was a 

Juniors had better mind jdieir P’s and Q’s at the com- 
ing exam, in mechanics. 

MEDICAL CLASS REPORTS- 

The final class picture has been adorning a St. Cathe- 
j r_„ 4.1- - p as t COU p] e Q f weeks. Many 
the comments passed upon it. 
Indeed, a certain gentleman complained that for a long 
time he could only get a bird’s eye view, for, being natur- 
ally gallant, he refrained from elbowing in amongst 
the crowd of ladies who constantly surrounded the 
window. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



203 



\\ hat about the Graduating Class dinner ? Let us 
hope that this good old custom may not be passed over 
by the Class of ‘93. 



* 

* * 



We are glad to note that the rumors regarding 
large donations to medicine are founded on fact. 
Trhough the generosity of one or more of Montreal’s 
merchant princes, the “ grand old faculty of McGill ” 
will be enabled not only to maintain that excellence of 
teaching which has always marked her, but will also 
step forward, adding new laboratories and appliances. 
It is said that alterations in the present building of an 
extensive nature are now being pursued, and that by 
the opening of the sixty-first Annual Session in Octo- 
ber next, all will be completed. 



The Governors of the Montreal General Hospital are 
not being canvassed as much this year as usual. Such 
a condition of things is good. The appointments to the 
house staff ought to be a matter of selection not of elec- 
tion. By selection is not meant those who at the last 
moment have memorized the contents of a text-book, 
without regard of any other consideration. 



* 

* * 



, * 

* * 



From a private letter from Sir Wm. Dawson, it is 
learned that the much cherished Principal of McGill is 
largely restored in health. It is altogether likely that 
by Convocation there will be absolute truth in the 
statement that there is nothing the matter with Sir 
William — that, in fact, he is all right. 



What charming dreams of student days in old Mc- 
Gill will flit across the minds of the graduating class 
during the week preceding April 1st, when in idle 
revelry they gaze upon old note books. 

* 1 * 

* Hs 

Dr. Cameron received loud and prolonged applause a 
few days ago upon making his farewell bow to the final 
men. The lectures, and clinics of the professor of Obste- 
trics are not to be equalled on the Continent. His calm, 
comprehensive and painstaking methods shall ever be 
remembered by those whose privilege it has been to 

listen. ^ ^ 

Dr. Stewart spoke encouraging words at the close of 
his final clinic, reminding the men, that in the diag- 
nosing of cases method was essential even more than 
speed. During the session just ended, the professor of 
Clinical Medicine has day after day given largely of 
his time and energy, not only to the hospital patients 
entrusted to his care, but also to a great body of Stu- 
dents who constantly followed in his train. The result 
has been, that never in the history of the hospital has 
better clinical work been carried on. The graduating 
class in Medicine feels truly grateful, and shall not soon 
forget the matured intellect and calm judgment of him 
whom they shall proudly call their preceptor. 

* 

* * 

It is to be regretted that steps have not yet been taken 
in the direction of erecting a tablet in the medical build- 
ing to the memory of the late lamented professor of 
Medicine, Dr. George Ross. With the outgoing of the 
present graduating class, reminiscences of his great 
clinical teaching and lecturing cease amongst the stu" 
dents. 

* 

* * 

A continuation of the excellent article entitled “ In- 
nocents Abroad ” will be found in this issue of the Fort- 
nightly. The writers deserve the thanks of the 
medical students, particularly of the present graduating 
class, for whose special benefit they are inserted. 



legal briefs. 

The Poet has abandoned the Muses for an indefinite 
period, and may be seen any evening from this date till 
the twenty-fifth of April, seated in his room on two 
copies of the Revised Statutes, studying diligently 
numerous copies of the Code. 

The Code Napoleon has been set to rhyme ; he may 
be contemplating a similar effort ! ! 

The Criminal Code 1892 still continues to be handled 
without gloves by various orgaus. Our friend the Wit- 
ness was full of righteous rage the other night over the 
provisions relating to the possibility of a violation of 
Sunday observance contained in Art. 729. We cannot 
discuss the point with you, as our lectures have not as 
yet extended to that important section, but we are get- 
ting there rapidly , and the Code will in all probability 
receive even rougher treatment at our hands on the 
afternoon of Saturday the 1st of April. 

We proceed to quote from the article of the Witness, 
which may apply even in our case : — 

“ The prisoner is acquitted perhaps, then hurrahs 

drinks a drive through the streets, perhaps a 

triumph ! or, it may be, all this for nothing as the 

Judge may not have agreed.” (The whole respect- 
fully submitted). 



Prof, (to student) — “What’s the matter? Let the 
man in. What can we do for you, sir ?” 

Workman . — “ Come to obtain the record of the gas 
meter, your Honor.” 

Prof, (sadly). — “ When one man comes to examine 
the meter I suppose the other must turn off the^aL’ 



* 

* * 



x lie CAflUi‘ ilk 



-- „ .he eye by focal illumination is 
easily learned, and the importance of knowing how to 
do it was suggested a few days ago by Dr. Buller. 



* * 
* 



One of the examiners was heard to say a few days 
ago, that the present final year men were the mos; in- 
telligent and best qualified he had ever seen pass out 
of McGill- 



By the way, who is Mrs. Malone ? She made her 
appearance long before the 17th of March. 

“ Gentlemen of the Jury ” said a Minnesota judge, 
“ murder is where a man is murderously killed. The 
killer in such case is a murderer. Now, murder by 
poison is just as much murder as murder with a gun, 
pistol or knife. It is the simple act of murdering that 
constitutes murder in the eye of the law. Don’t let the 
idea of murder and manslaughter confound you. Mur- 
der is one thing, manslaughter is another.’ 



204 



McGTLL FORTNIGHTLY. 



“ Yes, gentlemen. Even if you bore a hole in a 
house with a gimlet, it is burglary.” 

(Voice from rear). — “ What if it come out an open 
door?” 



SCIENCE JOTTINGS. 

An important meeting of the Four Years in Applied 
Science was held on March 16th, when the new Con- 
stitution for the “Applied Science Society” was 
considered. 

The Constitution, as drafted by the Committee from 
’93, which had the matter in hand, was, with a few 
changes, adopted by the meeting. 

One noticeable innovation, which certainly is a move 
in the right direction, is the clause added requiring the 
President to read the Constitution at the first meeting 
of all four years in each session. 

At the same meeting the first annual report of the 
Applied Science Reading Room Committee was rea d 
and adopted. A unanimous vote of thanks was passed 
to the Committee for the very efficient manner in which 
they have fulfilled their duties during the past session ; 
showing that their conscientious fulfillment of their 
duties has been appreciated by the subscribers to the 
room. 

The prospects are very bright for the Graduating 
Class Dinner this session. The Committee from ’94 
having it in change are Messrs. Duff, Henny, Pitcher and 
Shaw and the President of the Third Year, who has to 
preside at the feast. It will probably be held in the 
Balmoral Hotel on the evening of April 25th, and pro- 
mise to be one of the most successful banquets on re- 
cord, as all three years are showing interest in it in a 
practical and generous manner. . • 



There will be no Summer Session in Applied Science 
this year. 

’94 intends to hold a class supper on the evening of 
their last exam., April 18th. They will probably attend 
the Theatre en masse during the early part of the 
evening. 

Prof. Cox delivered an instructive and entertaining 
lecture in the Natural History Rooms last Thursday on 
Lightning and its effects, with practical illustrations. 
He exploded the belief that it is dangerous, to remain 
near steel or sit at a window during lightning. 



Prof. Nicholson will lecture on March 23rd, on Trans- 
mission of Power by Compressed Air. 



Messrs. Collyer, ’94, and Balfour, ’96, have been 
elected representatives from Science to the : . . . 

Association. 

Many freshmen are noticed wending their way to the 
instructive quarters of some Juniors to be instructed in 
mathematical logic in order to save their reputation 
next month. 



The following are two examples of what gentlemen 
preparing for the final examinations in the Faculty of 
Science may expect : — 

1. A very small elephant, whose mass may beneglec 
ted, stands upon a tub and rotates with an angular 
velocity of omega ; a fly makes n revolutions per second 
round the elephant’s trunk, the elephant winks p times 
per second, what is the probability, after the elephant 
has sighted the fly, that he will sight it again in t 
seconds ? 

2 A’s veracity is 5, B’s veracity is unknown. C 
told B that A denied that B was a liar, what is the pro- 
bability that A spoke the truth ? 



PERSONAL. 

We copy from the Kamloops Sentinel the follow- 
ing : 

C. A. Tunstall, M.D., has received from the Pro- 
vincial Government of British Columbia the appoint- 
ment of Medical Officer for the Royal Cariboo Hospital 
at Barkerville. His qualifications are of the highest 
class, and he will no doubt prove a valuable addition 
to the members of the medical profession in the Cariboo 
country. The appointment takes effect at once, and 
the Dr. will leave for Barkerville in time to take the 
Cariboo express from Ashcroft next Monday morning. 



Dr. C. F. Martin of the Montreal General Hospital 
leaves on Monday, the 27th inst., for Germany, where 
he will remain for some time pursuring further Medical 
studies. During his stay in the hospital as one of the 
house staff, his many admirable qualities and genial 
manner were appreciated by all those with whom he 
had to deal. Bon voyage. 



READING NOTES. 

Students, teachers and physicians get Turkish baths 
at half price at the Turkish Bath Institute in this city. 
Travellers say that nowhere in Europe can you get a 
better bath. 

Medical men generally are now recommending the 
Turkish Bath for the general health, and more espe- 
cially for rheumatism, coughs and colds. It is a very 
pleasant remedy. 

Gentlemen have the early morning, afternoon and 
evening hours. 



New Firm. New Coods. 

PATERSON & FOSTER, 

uilding, Phillips Square, 

ish to introduce themselves and would be pleased to 
meet you and have you inspect their stock. 

TELEPHONE No. 3141 . 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



205 



HATS 






HATS 



Direct from tine Wholesale Manufactory, 



ESTABLISHED 1863. 



Best 

English 

Made. 




S2.50! 




Having entered into special arrangements with one ot the largest firms of 



ENGLISH WHOLESALE HAT MANUFACTURERS 

We shall henceforth supply our customers with Fine Silk and Felt Hats, Straw Hats and Caps at 



due profit less than is charged by other retail houses. 

All our goods beincr ma de specially for us, and imported direct from the English Manufactory, all intermediate 
charges are saved and consequently we offer for $2.50 better Felt Hats than have previously been sold for $3.00 ; 
and for $5 00 better Silk Hats than have previously been sold for $6.00. These being our specialties we receive 

fresh consignments of the 

NCWCST STVLCS AND COLORS UP TO DATS. 



N- B-T,e and 28 * ° f ^ 

LARGEST RETAIL STOCK and BEST VALUE IN CANADA. 

# 

W M S A M L) L ^ ^ D * rB ® ame ^ ree ^ ^ ^ nilsDr ^°* el ^ oc * ( ’ 

In all cases same prices charged at both Stores. 



206 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 




TO ATHLETES 




Jerseys, Caps and Stock- 
ings, 

Running Shirts 

and Pants, 

English Spiked Shoes, 
Gymnasium Suits, 

etc., etc. 

Albert Demers, 

338 St. James St. 

Opposite Witness Office, 
McGill Crests Worked on Jerseys. 



0 

SAFETY BICYCLES 




We have the finest line of these goods in the city, and will offer special 
inducements to Students during this month. We can supply wheels, 
from $50 to $150, and we have sole control of the finest pneumatic 
tyre in the market. 

Fishing Tackle, Boxing Cioves and General Sporting 

Coods. 

The Wightman Sporting Goods Co., 

403 ST. PAUL STREET. 



STUDENTS’ HEADQUARTERS. 



All the Books required for the 




FACULTIES OF McGILL, 



TO BE HAD FROM 

W. ZDZE^YSZD-A-ILjIE &c go. 

.Down Town Store, - - 232 ST. JAMES ST. 

Up Town Store, - - 2365 ST. CATHERINE ST 



TIE SMITH PBEHIEI TYPE1RITEH. 




“ Improvement the Order of the Age.” 

Competitors must improve in order to equal it. 




1744 Notre Dame Street, - MONTREAL. 

Agent for the EDISON PHONOGRAPH. 

Telephone 2963. 



THE INGRES-COUTELLIER SCHOOL OF LANGUAGES. 




100 Dorchester St., (KINKORA.) 

We have much pleasure in announcing that 
we have opened a 

Fencing * icanemy 

in connection with our establishment. We have 
secured the services of Mr. A. Duret, late of 
the Ecole Superieure de Guerre, Paris, and are 
now ready for pupils. 

$10 per month, lessons every day 
u desired. For clubs of ten members, McGill 
Students, $60.00 per month. 



THE INGRES-COUTELLIER SCHOOL OF LANGUAGES. 



Single Trial Lessons Free. 



Send for Ciiculars 



MCGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



207 




“ THE BOYS ” buy their own and 
sweethearts’ 



GLOVES $ 



AT THK 



Paris Hid Glov<? Store. 

262 St. James St. | 2311 St. Catherine Street. 

MEDALS FOR SPORTS. 




Badges, Lapel Buttons, Pins, etc., in Hard 
Enamel, of all colors, a specialty. 

DESIGNS and ESTIMATES FREE OF CHARGE 

Experienced Designers and Enamellers on the premises 
LARGEST STOCK OF 

Medium Priced Watches and Jewellery in the city. 

Jewellery made to order and Watches repaired at Lowest Prices. 

JEt- HEMSLET, 

255 & 257 St. James Street. 

INCREASE YOUR INCOME 

by working during your spare time for a First Class Life 
and Accident Insurance Company, address P. O. Box 
835, Montreal. 



Flocueps ! plocueps ! ! 



The finest flowers, and most Artistic Floral work, can 
be had at all seasons and for all occasions. 



S. S. BAIN, Florist, 



66 BEAVER HALL HILL. 



A few doors below Dorchester St. 



SDASON 1592-93. 



I beg to announce that my stock, consisting of 

Suitings, Meltons, Beavers, Friezes, 5c. 

IS NOW COMPLETE. 

cocoTar mccoUNT TO STUDENTS. 

S best cloth and workmanship, 

1^1 ^ ■ ■ »— w w A ' 

Silk Lining, $36.00. 

INSPECTION INVITED- 

WM. F/VRQUftflrRSON, 

Merchant Tailor*, 

135 ST- PETER STREET. 



MOgTO£[, pyihkips & a o., 

STATIONERS, 

Blank Book fakers and Printers 

17J5 <£ 17/>7 NOTltE DAME STREET , 

1 

yi = MONTBE!AL. -^ 

AGENTS FOR 

THE ©AM® HA PH 

WRITINC MACHINE. 



What do you think 
I’ll shave you for nothing 
And give you a drink 

JOSEPH VEZIWA, 

12 McGill College Av., just below St. Catherine St. 

PRICES; HAIR CUT 15 CENTS. 

Shaving, 12 Tickets SI. 00 . 



Mansen Mouilin’s Surgery 

Recommended for the use of Students by the 

Prof. Surgery in McGill and other Universities. 

PUBLISHED ON SATURDAY. 

For Sale only by the Exclusive Agent, 

E. M. RENOUF, - 2238 St. Catherine St. 

Copies can be seen at my store. 



TO 1C AN ffUR <T0R€. 



27 St. Lawrence Main. 



This Store is known to be the cheapest one in the citv to bu* 
furs and have repairing done. 

Come in and see our prices, and you will find you can do better 
with us than with any other Furrier in Montreal 




208 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



GRAND CONCERT 



UNDER THE AUSPICES OF 



jVIcGill University Cricket Club, 



• \ 



TO BE HELD IN 



MONTREAL HIGH SCHOOL HALL, 



ON 



FRIDAY, APRIL 7th, at 8 o'clock. 



Fall Particular*. 1 



T T * T I ¥ 



, ‘spapers. 



a a 



a Adi 



