iWcGibb Fortnight^ 

% 

A Fortnightly Journal of Literature* University Thought and Event- 

VoL - HI. MONTREAL, NOVEMBER 23, 1894. No. 4 




* EDITORIAL BOARD & 

Editor-in-chief— Homer M. Jaquays, B.A. (App. Sc. *96). 
Secretary— Miss L. E. Armstrong (Donalda ’95). 

C. H. Zink (Com. Med. and Vet. Sc. ’95). Wm. Donahue, B.A. (Law ’96). 

H. M. Kinghorn, B.A., M.D. (Grads. Soc.) E. Commins, B.A. (Med. ’95). 

C. J. Hickson (Arts ’95). 

* BUSINESS BOARD 

E. B. Devlin B.A., (Law *95), Chairman . 

A. F. Edwards (Med. '96). Miss E. A. Hammond (Donalda ’96). 

W. F. Angus (App. Sc. ’95). J.C. Cutting (Com. Med. and Vet. Sc/95). 

A. E. Gordon (Arts *96). 



The McGill Fortnightly is published by the Students of the University 
on the Friday of every second week during the College Session. 

1 he annual subscription is $1. 00, payable strictly in advance. Remittance to 
be made to the Chairman of the Business Board, 85 Union Avenue, Montreal. 
Single copies may be obtained at Wm. Drysdale & Co.'s, K. M. RenouFs, Cyrus 
Ash lord’s, Chapman’s and W. Foster Brown’s, Booksellers. Price, 10 cents. 
Address Contributions to Editor-in-Chief, 963 Dorchester Street, Montreal. 



EDITORIAL COMMENTS. 



With THE close of the F'ootball season we turn 
from the campus to our various college societies and 
clubs, to get the recreation which our natures de- 
mand. Not the least important of these is the 
McGill Glee and Banjo Club. 

Though an organization of but a few years, its 
development has been rapid and has already 
approached the hopes and aims of its founder-. Its 
success is due to the excellent basis on which it has 
been founded and also to the untiring efforts of its 
promotors. 

The officers and members c* the Club, however, 
think that McGill as a whole does not give them the 
encouragement they deserve. While they do not 
desire any pecuniary aid, they Jo think that when a 
concert is given by the club, the professors and 
students should turn out to it in large numbers, — in 
fact, that they should attend en masse. 

As its name implies, the McGill Glee and Banjo 
Club consists of two parts — vocal and instrumental. 
The instrumental part is composed of guitars and 



banjos ; the vocal portion consists of four parts, and 
is unlimited as regards numbers, so long as all the 
1 parts are balanced. 

The glees learned are of a higher order of college 
songs than those usually found in the song-books. 

The advantages to the students and to the 
University in having such an organization are greater 
l han one would imagine. It gives to the students 
the opportunity of improving what musical talent 
they possess, to the University it gives such an adver- 
tisement as could be had in no other way. Not only 
in Montreal and Ottawa but all over the Lower Pro- 
vinces has the McGill Glee and Banjo Club brought 
the name of McGill to the notice of the public. The 
trip which the Club took to the Lower Provinces last 
spring proved so successful that McGill has come to 
be a household word in every town the Club visited. 

We are pleased to inform the readers of the 
Fortnightly that a concert will be given during 
the winter. We hope that whenever and wherever 
the Glee Club sings, the students will, by attending 
in large numbers, give the encouragement desired. 

The past few days have shown us perhaps a little 
too forcibly that winter, if not here, is close at hand, 
and at such a time nothing is more natural than 
for us to think about and make preparations for that 
season. In some directions there is ample occasion 
to think and opportunity to act. 

With the winter, at McGili, end all our pleasant 
days upon the campus. There are no college clubs 
for winter sports, and, consequently, the tennis rac- 
quet, cricket bat and football are laid away with a sigh. 
It is of course impossible to extend the tennis, cricket 
and football season, but the sigh might be made less 
audible, might perhaps vanish, could something be 
furnished to take the place of these sports. 

The idea of an open air skating rink upon the college 
grounds is one that solves the problem admirably, and 
certainly commends itself to the majority of under- 
graduates. With it the other sports v'ould be less 
missed, if missed at all, and the student enabled to 
take most invigorating exercise during that portion 
of the session in which, on account of the increase of 
work, he greatly requires it. 



56 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Steps are now being’ taken with this end in view, 
and apparently all that is needed to secure what 
would prove not only a source of enjoyment but an 
object of practical worth, is a well organized and deci- 
sive movement by the undergraduates themselves. 
It is to be hoped that this will not be lacking, and 
that we may soon realize the advantages of having a 
skating rink upon our own grounds. 



Wf. would draw attention to what, in our opinion, 
is a matter which ought to be remedied by the Stu- 
dents of McGill : we refer to the variety of ribbons 
with which a large number of the students bedeck 
themselves by wearing these ornaments in their hats 
or on their coats. Now, it is surely a very poor show 
of loyalty to their Alma Mater if these men prefer to 
wear the ribbon of another college or school in pre- 
ference to or even to wear two or three others besides 
that of McGill. When a man comes to college he 
ought certainly to enter into the life of the college, and 
should not be ashamed to wear the colours of the in- 
stitution of which he is a member. To those Fresh 
men and others who wear the ribbons of the different 
schools at which they have been severally educated, 
we would suggest that they discard these and not be 
ashamed of being counted a member of such an 
institution as McGill. 



OBITUARY. 

The sad news reached McGill this past week of 
the death of one of her brilliant graduates. 

Peter Henry leRossignol, who graduated in 
Practical Chemistry in 1891, and in spite of unusual 
physical disadvantages won many honors throughout 
his course and the highest esteem of his fellow-stu- 
dents. 

At graduation he received prizes in chemistry, both 
practical and theoretical, experimental physics, ma- 
thematical physics, mineralogy, blow-piping and 
zoology. His first appointment was to the position 
of chemist at the Iron Mills, Radnor Forges, and 
from there he moved to Ottawa, where he was assist- 
ant chemist at the Experimental Farm, which posi- 
tion he held at the time of his death. He died at 
his home in Toronto on Wednesday, November 14th, 
1894 - 



CORRESPONDENCE. 



To the Editor of the McGill Fortnightly : 

Dkar Sir, 

Being one of the many students in the University 
who are deeply interested in the question of a Univer- 
sity Theatre night, and who feel convinced that the 
question has a more important bearing on College 
politics — if I may use the term — than would appear 
to an outsider, I venture to make a suggestion as to 
its solution. 

It may be fairly granted that every year has seen 
an advance toward the creation of a University night, 
and I feel sure that most of those who have heard the 
opinions expressed at the joint meetings held this 
year, for the purpose of coming to a mutual under- 
standing, will bear me out when I say, that we came 
so nearly agreeing upon all points this year that, 
unless a distinct retrogression occurs before next fall, 
a University Theatre night of some kind is almost a 
certainty in 1895. 

In order that this may be made the more certain, 

I beg to make the following suggestion : That the 

present Junior, Sophomore and Freshmen years in 
Arts, Medicine, Science and Veterinary Science, and 
the Second and First Years in Law, each electa repre- 
sentative during the present term, who would con- 
stitute a “Committee of Negotiation,” and that this 
committee should simply exist for the purpose of en- 
deavoring to arrange for a University Theatre night 
in 1895. When this committee has been elected, it 
could meet this session, and sign on behalf of and with 
the approbation of the Years represented, an agree- 
ment to the effect that next session no Faculty or no 
\ ear should themselves take, or authorize to be taken, 
any steps towards securing a theatre or otherwise 
arranging for theatre night, until this committee 
meet again in the fall, to see if terms agreeable to all 
the faculties could not be reached ; and that, in the 
event of it being impossible to attain the much 
desiied end, they then agree upon their respec- 
tive theatres ; and in the further event of not being 
able to agree upon the theatre each party is to take* 
that the question be decided by lot. 

If, Mr. Editor, this or some similar suggestion 
were acted upon, it would eradicate what has been 
for three years the greatest obstacle to a mutual 
understanding, namely, that each party has felt in the 
past that they were bound to place themselves in a 
somew hat secure position by bespeaking a theatre 
before entering into negotations, for fear that the 
negotiations would fail, and these arrangements them- 
selves invariably arouse a spirit of hostility, which, 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



57 



although it is good-natured, is nevertheless a veiv 
serious obstacle to a satisfactory settlement. 

Hoping that you may consider it worth while to 
publish this rather unfinished suggestion, 

I remain, 

Yours faithfully, 

S. CARMICHAEL. 



CONTRIBUTIONS 



THE RIGHT USE OF BOOKS. 

Lecture to the Delta Sigma Society of 
McGill University by Mrs. Ashley Carus- 
Wilson, B.A. Lond. 

“The time has come,” said the Mistress of Girton 
College, Cambridge, to me lately, “when the average 
girl goes to College.” That means that the opportu- 
nities of higher culture, which Canada has so promptly 
fo’lowed the lead of the Old Country in offering to her 
women, are frankly recognized as fitting the excep- 
tional woman for exceptional work, in some cases, and 
in many more cases as fitting the average woman 
for what is not only the most ancient but also the 
most common and withal the most honorable voca- 
tion that a woman can have, the vocation of home- 
maker. I propose therefore to speak of the right use 
of books, as it concerns not the learned literary 
woman, but the woman who finds time for the duty 
and pleasure of reading among many other occu- 
pations. 

Right use of books means right motive , right 
matter and right method in our reading, which we will 
deal with in order. 

Think of the last book you read, and ask yourself 
quite honestly this question : “ Why did I read it ? ” 
Will any of these anwers be yours : “ Because I was 
askecT to read it. Because I was expected to read it. 
Because I wanted to keep up my reputation as well- 
informed and studious. Because I had heard the 
book talked of, and I wanted to be able to talk of it 
also. Because the book looked amusing, and I wish- 
ed for some amusement.” I do not say that reasons 
such as these ought not to account for reading in the 
sense of glancing through published matter as we 
glance through a newspaper. But ought they to 
account for any reading worth lecturing about ? 

The true reason for reading in the true sense is well 
suggested in one of the happy mottoes graven in the 
windows of the Library given to McGill University 
by the late Mr. Peter Redpath. It consists of but two 
words, ypv^rjv iarpeiov, “ healing of the soul,” which we 
may take in the larger sense of keeping in health rather 
than the smaller sense of restoring to health. You 



dined and walked out yesterday, because you wished 
to keep your body healthy by means of nourishment 
and exercise. Now, the mind like the body has a 
twofold need of noui ishment and exercise. Would 
you plead exemption from your dinners and walks of 
this week because you dined and walked regularly 
some years ago ? H ow then can you shape this excuse : 
“ I read regularly in my schooldays or in my firstyear 
of leisure when school and college days were at an end. 
Now I have many other thingsto do, and may forego 
the habit.” 

I cannot say too strongly to those whose col- 
lege days are notin the past tense: “ Use to the utter- 
most your present opportunity for strenuous study. It 
will be over all too soon, and it will never occur again.” 
And to those for whom “ the trivial round, the com- 
mon task ” have once for all limited that opportunity, 
I would say: “Never resign yourself to the thought that 
for you intellectual pursuits, however delightful, are 
things of the past.” Starvation is a slow process, 
with imperceptible stages. Up to a certain point, 
mind and body may be left without food. Nature in 
both cases wards off inevitable consequences by 
using up the results of past nutrition. For a time 
we continue to exist if we cannot be said to live ; 
but it is for a time only. Nor can the frame that is 
constantly passive retain its vigor and agility. We 
do take to heart the fact that we dare not leave our 
bodies unnourished and unexercised. At the cost of 
thought and effort, let us take to heart the equally 
certain fact that we dare not leave our minds un- 
nourished and unexercised either. 

You may reply: “ My mind is already fully exercised 
with some regular work of teaching, writing or corres- 
pondence. Is not this enough ? ” 

Let a writer and a teacher answer the question. A 
well-known journalist tells us that although his daily 
employment is wholly intellectual, he mades a prin- 
ciple of devoting one morning hour always to some 
“ solid ” book not immediately connected with his 
writing. One of the greatest teachers who ever 
lived writes thus to a friend and pupil : — “ I am 
satisfied that a neglected intellect is far oftener the 
cause of mischief to a man than a perverted or over- 
valued one ! I hold that a man is only fit to teach 

so long as he is himself learning daily. If the mind 
once becomes stagnant, it can give no fresh draught 
to another mind ; it is drinking out of a pond instead 
of a spring.” — ( Life and Letters of Dr. Arnold of Rug- 
by, Vol. II., p. 85.) 

To the busy teacher especially comes the tempta- 
tion to live from hand-to-mouth intellectually ; to 
teach what was learned long ago as it was learned 
then ; or to take in merely what must be given out 
immediately. We need to remind ourselves conti- 
nually that parts of a subject, even its elementary 



58 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



parts, cannot be taught successfully unless the teacher 
continues to study it as a whole apart from the daily 
demand of the class room. 

For those also whose ordinary duties are less intel- 
lectual, there is in a still higher degree need of some 
kind of mental exercise. Lack of this too often means 
degeneration of the bright, intelligent youth or girl 
into the dull, common-place, harassed man or woman. 

Lastly, our motto tells us that culture, however 
delightful, does not satisfy the deepest needs of our 
nature. It is the healing of the soul, but not of that 
highest self which we call the spirit. The best possible 
illustration of what it can and of what it cannot do 
for a man is to be found in the autobiography of that 
remarkable and highly cultured man, John Stuart 
Mill. Having learned more than we are any of us 
likely to learn, he yet failed to find a satisfactory 
answer to the question : Is life worth living ? 

The homely analogy from bodily needs suggested 
above helps us to solve the problem of Right Matter 
in our reading also. 

A healthy appetite finds satisfaction in every kind 
of wholesome food, and almost every branch of study 
affords healthy exercise to the mind. But neither 
mind nor body can flourish on what is not nutritious. 

All the books in the world may be divided into 
four classes : 

(1) Those containing bad matter, badly written. 

(2) Those containing bad matter, well written. 

(3) Those containing good matter, badly written. 

(4) Those containing good matter, well written. 

The first of those four classes is quite without 
attraction for the educated reader, so I may pass it 
by with the remark that it is in the power of each of 
us to do something to keep it out of the hands of 
others, to whom it too often means that the abil- 
ity to decipher a printed page is a curse rather than 
a blessing. 

Concerning the second class, let me quote the words 
of a delightful author, known to most of us, address- 
ed to a large gathering at the Liverpool Conference 
of Women Workers in 1891. Mrs. Molesworth there 
said : — “ Do not be in a hurry to read a book just 
because everybody is reading it ;.do not feel ashamed 
not to have seen the book of the season. It may 
sometimes prove a very blessed thing for you never 
to see it at all. Far better miss altogether the read- 
ing of the cleverest book that ever was written than 
soil your mind and memory/;/ the very least; far 
better to be laughed at as prudish or behind the day, 
than risk any contact with the mental or moral 
pitch which is so very hard quite to rub off again... 
To my sorrow I could name some recent English 
novels, written, I am assured, with the best motives, 
and supposed to be suited to young readers, which I 



should shrink from putting into the hands of such 
almost more than an honestly coarse mediaeval 
romance.” 

Ignorance and indifference as to the dangers aris- 
ing from the third class of books are so common that 
I must dwell on them for a space. In times of old 
there was such a thing as “ universal learning. 
Hippias in the days of Pericles, Scaliger in the days 
of the Renaissance, were veracious if not truthful 
when they declared that they knew all there was to 
know and had read all there was to read. Infinite 
as they are in reality, for those famous scholars the 
bounds of the knowable were strictly limited. The 
world is older now and knowledge is wider. When 
thirst for knowledge is first awakened in early youth, 
we vaguely hope to learn everything : we are “ uni- 
versally curious.” But ere youth is left behind, we 
find out that we must be content to leave many books 
unread and many paths of knowledge unexplored. 
Let us then choose wisely what we will learn, for this 
at any rate is true. 

Ach Gott ! Die kunst ist lang, 

Und kurz ist unser Leben ” 

Goethe puts these words into the lips of Wagner, 
who stands for a type of those who are content to 
accumulate any kind of knowledge without pausing 
to consider whether it is worth accumulating. 

In a wider sense we must each, like Dr. Johnson’s 
“ Rasselas,” make our “ choice of life.” For lack of 
resolution to do so, many drift on, and find their best 
years slipping from them ere they have accomplished 
anything. Others choose amiss. Have you never 
known men and women capable of doing useful 
though perhaps humble work of other kinds who 
waste themselves over worthless MSS, writing, though 
they have no new truths to give to the world nor any 
old truths to teach in a new way or to a new audi- 
ence ? The MSS replenish the waste-paper baskets of 
second rate magazines, their writers join the doleful 
ranks of “ the great unappreciated ” with a quarrel 
against the world in general and against publishers 
and editors in particular. Even clever men some- 
times know not how best to use their powers. Did 
not Frederick of Prussia, greatest soldier of his age, 
carry reams of bad verses in his pockets ? 

If then as workers we must choose wisely among 
things worth doing, and as readers among books 
worth reading, have we not a cogent reason for 
avoiding both unprofitable pursuit and valueless 
books, since we choose both at the expense of leav- 
ing good work undone and worthy books unread ? 

Again, inferior writing must lower our own stan- 
dard of thought and expression. A distinguished 
author once described to me his vow as a young 
student to lead no book that was not literature for 
two years. At the end of that time he had learned 




McGill fortnightly, 



59 



once for all “ to aprove the things that differ,” that is, 
“ ^ prove the things that are excellent. ” St Paul’s 
phrase, SoKi/xd^eiv tcl Siacftepovra bears either interpre- 
tation. 

Here we touch upon a distinction not always 
recognized. The three classes of books hitherto 
discussed have nothing to do with literature. Such 
expressions as “ inferior literature,” “ pernicious lite- 
rature, ” are contradictions. 

Men write for money, and make it. Such writing is 
and may be praiseworthy but it does not produce 
common literature. 

Men write for fame and win it. Such writing is 
common, and need not be ignoble, but it may lack 
the true inspiration of literature. 

Men write to amuse. Such writing is very common. 
It may be harmless, but it has no place in literature. 
And scanning the pages of some trashy weekly to 
beguile the hours of a long railway journey lias 
nothing to do with reading worthy of the name. 
Would that trash have so large a sale if people were 
not afraid to be left alone with their own thoughts ? 

Men write to edify. Such writing, though more 
honourable than some we have noted, is not neces- 
sarily literature. A religious writer, whose works are 
beyond all question literature, once remarked to me 
that it is a pity that so many people imagine that 
the only qualification needed for writing a religious 
book is being religious. Rather let the grandest of 
themes claim the greatest powers we possess. 

What then is the true nature and the true motive 
of literature ? Let me give you Milton’s famous defi- 
nition of the one, and an equally good definition of 
the other from the works of his contemporary Henry 
More, the “ Cambridge Platonist 

“ Books are not absolutely dead things, but do 
contain a potency of life in them, to be as active 
as that soul whose progeny they are ; nay, they do 
preserve as in a vial the purest efficacy and extraction 
of that living intellect that bred them. As good 
almost kill a man as kill a good book ; a good book 
is the precious life-blood of a master spirit, embalmed 
and treasured up on purpose to a life beyond life. ” 
— ( Areopagitica ). 

More says he will be satisfied if “ by thoughts rudely 
scattered in his verse he may lend men light till the 
dark night be gone.” 

To be Continued 



WHAT POETS THINK OF POETRY. 

Poetry has been variously defined as “ A criticism 
of Life”, “The beautiful representation of the beau- 
tiful, given in Words”, “ The thought that lies in 



things”, “ The presentment in musical form, to the 
imagination, of noble grounds for the noble emotions ” 
(Ruskin), and “Imitation bywords” (Aristotle). 
Aristotle and Dryden, with many others, consider 
invention the prime requisite of poetry, although the 
latter in his advice to poets lays great stress upon 
form. Other writers insist that “ Metre is the first 
and only condition absolutely demanded by poetry”. 

These definitions do not seem to guide the critics to 
any material extent, for we find Swinburne con- 
demning Byron and lauding Coleridge, while Matthew 
Arnold upholds Byron, and Ruskin assails Coleridge. 
There is consolation to the inglorious but not mute 
Miltons, whose productions fail to receive that print 
dress to which young authors aspire, in the know- 
ledge that even poets of the first rank are not poets 
at all in the eyes of some critics. 

The question as to what constitutes poetry has 
hitherto been approached from the inductive stand- 
point. This critic and that has theorized concerning 
poets and poetry according to his own idiosyncracies, 
and subsequently attempted to fit the man and his 
work to the theory, rejecting such as did not accord 
with it. A better understanding of the subject 
may be reached by reversing the process, ascertaining 
what fundamental characteristics are present in the 
best poets, and afterwards advancing towards theory. 
But, in arriving at our conclusions, we must not 
neglect to take into consideration the peculiar views 
of each poet, eliminating, as it were, his individuality. 
The objective poet, for example, as was Browning, 
keeps one excluded from his own heart ; while the 
subjective poet, like Burns, takes one into all his 
confidence and unveils his whole soul. Some poets 
would point a moral and depict ideals. Others are 
content to record things as they are and leave the 
moral to take care of itself, which is sincere flattery to 
Nature. Browning sings : 

“ Only a learner 
Quick one or slow one. 

Just a discerner, 

I would teach no one. 

I am earth’s native, — 

No re-arranging it. 

I be creative, 

Choppiug and changing it ?” 

The first fundamental similarity we find among great 
poets is their assiduous communing with Nature, and 
we may always distinguish the disciple from the 
master by noting which one goes straight to Nature 
for inspiration and which seeks inspiration in the 
other only. The one is a sun, shining with his own 
light ; the other is but a planet, or at best a moon, 
glimmering for a space with stolen illumination. 

“To the solid ground 

Of Nature trusts the mind that builds for aye, 
Convinced that there, there only can she lay 
Secure foundations.” 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Says Word worth ; and he says again and again 
in various ways: 

“Thy art be Nature ; the live current quaff.” 
Pope, considered one of the most artificial of 
poets, says in his precise way : 

“First follow Nature, and your judgment fiame 
By her just standard, which is still the same. 
Unerring Nature, still divinely blight, 

One clear, unchanged and univers il light.” 

It is not necessary to emphasize this point by 
further citations. On nature alone are all mortal 
concepts based, and they cannot be based on any- 
thing else. Happy the man and the poet who reads 
nature aright and takes her at first hand ! 

There are various ways of studying Nature, 
however : that, for example, of the pessimist and that 
of the optimist. Let us see if the poets give us any 
rules for guidance in this respect. 

“ Whether the muse or love call thee his mate, 

Both them I serve, and of their train am I.” 
is what Milton has to say for our guidance ; and 
Walter Savage Landor sings, in a charming lyric : 
“I doubt if heaven itself^could part 
A tuneful tongue and tender heart.” 

Shelly, in his ode to “ Intellectual Beauty,” cries : 

“ Love, only Love : a wind which o\r the wires 

Of the soul’s giant harp 

There is a mood that language faints beneath.” 

Wordsworth also insists that nature must be stu- 
died with love, 

44 Love, blessed love is everywhere 
The spirit of my song. 

Mid groves and by the calm fireside 
Love animates my lyre.’’ 

and his successor to the laureateship “ from the brows 
of him who uttered nothing base ” has the well known 
stanza : 

“ The poet in a golden clime was bjrn, 

With golden stars above. 

Dowered with the hate of hate, the scorn of scorn, 

The love of love.” 

and Tennyson says again, speaking of the garden of 
poetry : 

“ In the middle leaps a fountain 

Ever drawn 

From the brain of the purple mountain 

And the mountain draws it from heaven above 
And it sings a song of undying love . 55 

Victor Hugo and Goethe are not silent on this 
point. 

The illustrious Frenchman says in “ The Poet’s 
Function” : 

“ Hear iu shade the voice of love ; 

Find in gloom the light of day — 

Light that gleams with tender ray, 

Voice that whispers from above.” 

and the great German lilts thus : 

“ A plan the muses entertained 
Methodically to impart 
To Psyche the poetic art 
Prosaic pure her soul remained, 



No wondrous sounds escaped her lyre, 

Eeu in the fairest summer night. * 

But Amor came with glance of fire ; 

The lesson soon was learned aright.” 

It is manifest from the words of the poets that 
Nature should be studied affectionately. As Thomp- 
son has it : 

“ ’Tis love creates their melcdy, and all 
This waste of music is the voice of love.” 

The poet should hate nothing that God has made, 
yet be 

“ Trained to judgment righteously severe, 
and should prefer beauty to ugliness, virtue to vice. 
Some poets maintain their right to sing, as the realistic 
school of novelists do, of the vile ; but the majority 
are not such : Swinburne, who in literature has trans- 
gressed against the canons of morality, nevertheless, 
sings : 

“ W ith all love of all things loveliest 

Gave thy soul power to make them more divine.” 

and Browning says ; 

“ You hold things loveliest the best.” 

re-echoing Goethe’s 

“ He plucks the flowers that fairest seem.” 

while Thompson writes : 

“ Beauty deserves the homage of the muse 

Beauty I’ll sing in my sublimest lays. 

I burn to give her just immortal praise .’ 1 

and again he says : 

“ Yon breathing prospect bids the muse 

Throw all her beauty forth. But who can paint 
Like nature ? Can Imagination boast 
Amid its gay creation hues like hers ? 

Pope, in a couplet, as usual crystallizes much : 

“ Life, force and beauty must to all impart 
At once the source and end and test of Art.” 

It is one of the most significant truths of life that 
beauty is more pleasing to even the vilest than 
hideousness. The woild is steering downward, and 
the true poet, when he takes his turn at the helm, if 
he does not think it his duty to lay a straighter 
course, at least will not endeavor to alter the direc- 
tion of the ship of life one degree to the worse. He 
is one of the 

“ M ighty masters of the lay. 

Nature’s true sons, the friends of man and truth,” 

as James Beattie sings. 

This little quotation brings us to another prime 
necessity in poetry, its truth, either the dim elusive 
shapes of truth which alike delight and torment the 
soul, or the logical truth recognized by the intellect, 
which may be considered as bearing the same relation 
to the other species ot truth as the body does to the 
soul which inhabits it. 1 he poet finds and expresses 
truth everywhere. 

“ In common tilings that round him lie 
Some random truths he can impart.” 

and 

fl Verse can build a princely throne 
On humble truth.” 



.McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



6 1 



In many cases, while pursuing this phase of his 
art, the poet merely records the thoughts common 
to human kind. Browning says : 

u Your brains eat into rhythm, you tell 
What we fell only.” 

But the power of finding truth is greater in the 
poet than in others. He is gifted with the seeing 
eye. Swinburne in his poem of Beaudelaire says : 

<c Thou sawest, in thine old singing season, brother, 
Secrets and sorrows unbeheld of us ; 

Fierce loves and lovely leaf-buds poisonous 
Bare to thy subtle eye, but for none other. 



And with each face thou sawest the shadow on each 
Seeing, as men sow, men reap.” 

and of Victor Hugo the same writer says : 

Ci For thee man’s spirit stood 
Disrobed of flesh and blood, 

And bare the heart of the most secret hours.” 
Wordsworth reiterates the same idea : 

“ He whose experienced eye can pierce the array 
Of past events ; to whom in vision clear 
The aspiring heads of future things appear, 

Like mountain tops whose mists have rolled away.” 

and again in speaking of the poet, he says : 

“ For he hath waking empire wide as dreams, 

An ample sovereignty of eye and ear.” 

Browning speaks of the poet as 

“ Scenting the world, looking it full in the face 
The general-in-chief 

Through a whole campaign of the world’s life and death.’’ 

Tennyson says of the poet : 

“ He saw through life and death, through good aud ill, 

He saw through his own soul, 

The marvel of the everlasting will 
An open scroll. ” 

Tennyson, Wordsworth and others insist that the 
poet must be a seer, a prophet. Tennyson says : 

“ And the nightingale thought : I have suug niauy songs, 

But never a song so gay; 

For he sings of what the world will be 
When the years have died away.” 

The poet is called upon to do more than merely 
see. Mrs. Browning writes in a sonnet : 

“ The poet hath the child’s sight in his breast 
And sees all New. What oftenest he has viewed 
He views with the first glory ; fair and good 
Pall never on him at the fairest, best.” 

Neither should the poet be a coward, at least not 
in mental conflicts. He should be “doing the king’s 

work all the dim day long.” 

“ How oft the malice of one luckless word 
Pursues the enthusiast to the social board 



Yet he repines not if his thought stand clear 
At last of hindrance and obscurity.” 

is what Wordsworth cries, while Tennyson prays ; 

“ Mine be the strength of spirit, full and free 
Like some broad river rushing down alone. 



Mine be the power which over to its sway 
Will win the wise at once, and by degrees 
May into uncongenial spirits flow.” 



and he demands of the poet that he be subject only 
to freedom and wisdom, as will be seen in his poem 
“ The Poet.” 

Do these citations enable us to form any conclu- 
sion regarding the nature of poetry and the character 
which the poet must possess? It seems to me that 
they do so in a manner ; and yet there is not one of 
these requisites which may not be found in masters 
of prose or which may not with propriety be de- 
manded of them. We perhaps demand of the poet 
greater love, a more faithful allegiance to all things 
beautiful and a greater exaltation of soul than we do 
of the prose writer, yet we find all these at times in 
the latter without finding in him the voice of a great 
poet. It is not the poet alone who preserves 

“ tbe dignity of man 

With soul erect.” 

or only the poet who 

tl holds the future fast 

Accepts the coming ages duty 
Their present for this past.” 

Perhaps we may, however, find some special char- 
acteristic of the poet in his power of showing us the 
truth in a new light and instituting comparisons be- 
tween seemingly incongruous facts. Metaphor and 
simile are tools belonging to him, and when the 
prose writer uses them well we speak of his w 7 ork as 
poetic. 

While the poet finds sustenance upon earth, he 
nevertheless sings in the sky, like the lark. In the 
womb of nature lie all things mortal and the possi- 
bility of all mortal thoughts, and it seems to be one 
duty of the poet to make known to his fellows the 
unseen universe of “high hopes and unseen flying 
forms of powers ” and “ lend to aery nothings a local 
habitation and a name.” Swinburne speaks of 

“ Fair living things made to thy will of old. 

Born of thy lips, no birth of mortal mould, 

That iu the world of song about thee wait 
Where thought and truth are one and manifold.” 

while Wordsworth speaks of the poet thus : 

“ Rich are his walks with supernatural cheer. 

The region of his inner spirit teems 
With vital sounds and monitory gleams 
Of high astonishment and pleasing fear.” 

We demand intensity of the poet, either intensity 
of mere beauty or sweetness, as in descriptive verse 
or lyrics, or the intensity of thought and truth to be 
found in lengthier masterpieces, and we pardon 
nothing commonplace, as we do in prose. 

Jewellers set diamonds in little spirals for ear-rings 
that every slightest motion of the wearer sets the 
gem dancing and sparkling, and in like manner the 
poet works. Every true poem is a diamond of truth 
set in a spiral of golden words. 

And golden words they must be ! Metre, from the 
Standpoint of every poet, by example if not by pre- 



62 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



* - - — — 

cept, is a prime necessity to poetry. Swinburne, 
''hose wonderful command over words makes him 
perhaps a prejudiced witness, speaks of 

“ Strength and heat of spirit to pierce 
All forms of cloud and color, that disperse 
And leave the spirit of beauty to remould 
In types of clear, chryselephantine verse.” 

and again of 

“ Words more golden than fine gold 
To carve in shapes more glorious than of old 

Wrought with fire of joy and light of tears 
In words divine, as deeds that grow thereof, 

Such music as he swoons with love who hears.” 

From the utterances of the poets themselves it 
would seem that metre is a prime necessity and that 
the language must be excellently well chosen. The 
poet must be true to Nature, fearless in utterance 
and with a heart tender yet severely just to all human 
weakness. He may, it appears, abstain from com- 
ment in his presentation of life or nature, yet in his 
heait of hearts should have for his purpose the 
glorification of beauty and the purpose of teaching 
that “ as men sow men reap.” He must feel that 
sin is disease, repentance convalescence, and virtue 
health. He must be far and deep seeing, reading not 
merely the future but the truths that lie hidden from 
his fellow-men in humble things. To him the realm 
of the ideal should be open, “ where thought and 
truth are one and manifold,” and we should be able 
to arise from a perusal of his work with a soul en- 
couraged to accept its round of daily duties, and a 
mind made glad with a vision of beauty or more pro- 
foundly instructed in the workings of the Creator 
who works towards perfection in us all. No single 
phrase can attempt a definition of poetry without fail- 
ing. Wherever nature is, there lies poetry asleep, 
and with each new truth discovered a new stop is 
added to the majestic organ of harmony. All that 
can be said is that poetry is the mirror of the world, 
which by some magic art reflects an image more beau- 
tiful than fact and yet none the less true in its deep- 
est meaning. In the beautiful body it shows us the 
beautiful soul, and it possesses the power also of 
showing us the soul of beauty which dwells behind 
the substance scarred and aged by the warfare of life 
and the passage of years. 

Montreal. 

ARTHUR WEIR. 



SHAKESPEARE’S GARDEN. 

Read at a meeting of the Folk-Lore Society. 

A competent authority has stated that of the Eng- 
lish wild flowers, Shakespeare mentions about fifteen 
some of them several times. Of exotic flowers, such 
as were cultivated in the scanty gardens of his 



period, he mentions nine or ten. Of trees and shrubs, 
exotics included, there arc notices of about twenty- 
five. Of fruits, whether ripened in England, or im- 
ported from foreign countries, about thirty. Vege- 
tables are spoken of in about the same proportion. 

It would not be fair to take these as constituting the 
whole of the Flora of the Elizabethan time as known 
to Shakespeare, since many other trees and flowers 
might have been familiar to him without receiving 
mention in his works. Still, we know, that in com- 
parison with our day, the gardens, hedge-rows and 
meadows, — aye, and even the orchards, must have 
presented a very scanty aspect. 

The best idea of the nfatter is furnished by the 
present garden of New Place, at Stratford-upon-Avon, 
the retreat in which the poet designed to pass the 
“ remainder end ” of his days, had they not been cut 
short by an unskilfully-treated fever, — where Mr. J. 
O. Halliwell (Phillips) has planted all the flowers 
which might have been there in Shakespeare’s time, 
not, we believe, restricting himself [to those actually 
mentioned in the poet’s works. 

How greatly Shakespeare’s garden must have dif- 
fered from the garden of modern times may there 
be seen. Since his day the floral treasures of the 
country have been lost in the blaze and glory of an 
innumerable influx of novelties fiom all quarters of 
the globe. We have entered on the development of 
a new species of floriculture, if we may give it the 
name. Exhausting flowers, we have betaken our- 
selves to the culture of leaves, and the modern garden 
is partly made up of variegated foliage in all its 
capricious splendour. 

A greater change still is that which has come over 
us in the arrangement of what we possess. It is not, 
of course, possible to realize with any certainty the 
sort of garden to which the poet inclined. It might 
ha\ e been of the Italian siyle, and laid out with a 
certain formality and -pedantic exactness, for such 
retreats were the vogue of the day. But even sup- 
posing this, it. must have been a very different thing 
to the formal gardening of to-day. Dutch taste had 
not then invaded England, nor had there been expe- 
rienced any of those influences which have resulted 
in what has been happily termed the kamptulicon 
variety with which we are familiar. A geometrical 
figme, wrought in colours, with a severity that admits 
not of the faintest deviation from the most rigid ex- 
actness— this is the model garden of to-day, more 
resembling confectioner’s work than anything per- 
taining to the gardener’s calling. This is the high- 
est triumph of the art as now practised in which 
natuieis dispensed with as a superfluous factor, and 
the “ loves of the plants” and the “loves of the tri- 
angles seem to have become somehow identical, 
hor very good reasons gardens may be divided 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



63 



into the ante and the post Shakespearian kinds. An 
entire change came with the invention of the green- 
house, which did not take place until three years 
after Shakespeare’s death, — namely, in 1619, if we 
are to accept the statement that we owe the idea to 
Solomon de Caus, architect to the Elector Palatine ; 
and without this means of protecting plants from bad 
weather, our modern gardening could not have become 
an accomplished fact. Not only is it true, as Cowper 
puts it, that 

“Who loves a garden loves a green-house too.” 
but without a green-house a garden in the modern 
sense would be impossible. 

1 hat the gardens of the aristocracy were compara- 
tively formal affairs may be conceded — that in which 
the business of Malvolio and the cross-garters occur- 
red, for instance — but we are persuaded that Shakes- 
peare’s was v hat Tennyson happily termed a “care- 
less ordered garden.” We can imagine him with his 
broad sympathies and comprehensive love of Nature, 
taking delight in no other. Be sure it was the place 
in which the flowers grew in profuse luxuriance, much 
as Nature left them, taste indicating some rough out- 
line of arrangement, while skill and industry kept 
redundancies within bounds, and preserved a certain 
trimness as agreeable to the eye. Probably, as a 
rule no strict distinction was made between fruits and 
flowers. The mulberry tree grew in the centre, and 
the apricots and pears on the walls, and the rest was 
given up to the flowers, which might even have been 
intruded on by the vegetables, and no great harm 
dot e, for some of the vegetables are pleasant to the 
eye in ceitain stages, and even the vulgar cabbage, 
with ample leaves of glaucous green, dew besprent, is 
not an object wanting in beauty. 

The flowers of the garden being so few, the great 
poet naturally embraced those wildings of Nature 
with v hich the hedges and meadows abounded. And 
it is in his descriptions of these that he so especially 
excels. He is always right as to the time of their 
flowering, — not jumbling together those of different 
seasons, as inferior poets so often do; and when he has 
occasion to note their peculiarities, this is often done 
in a word, and then always the right word, — and, if 
not, then in a beautiful and suggestive sentence 
Take the famous passage of Proserpine’s arm-ful, by 
way of example ; the daffodils earliest among blos- 
soms, “ come before the swallow dares,” and take the 
winds of March “with beauty” — the violets are 
“ dim,” that is, dimly seen among the fresh leaves, 
and their characteristic is sweetness ; they are 
‘ sweeter than the lids of Juno's eyes or Cy the reds 
breath — the primroses are pale and fleeting — pale 
by contrast with other yellow blossoms of the spring 
and lost before summer, or, as he puts it, “bright. 
Phoebus in his strength .” 



In “ Cymbeline ” the dead Fidele’s face is likened 
in hue to the “pale primrose”; her veins to the 
“azur’d harebell ” ; and her breath to the “leaf of 
eglantine,” — not the flower, which does not come 
till afterwards, later in the year. 

The allusion in the same passage to the “ furr’d 
moss” gives the texture of the moss in a word. 

In the “ Tempest" we have the “ toothed briar T and 

that exquisite line 

The banks with peonies aud liliecl brims.” 

On two occasions we have references to the marked 
peculiarity of the cowslip. Imogen has a mole cinque , 
spotted like the crimson drops in “ the bottom of a 
cowslip,” and elsewhere the “ cowslips tall ” are des- 
cribed as the pensioners of the Fairy Queen — her 
“ Yeomen of the Guard” in fact and “ in their gold coats 
spots we see ” these “ be rubies, fairy favours.” Ophe- 
lia’s flowers are not described ; but the catalogue o f 
them indicates another kind of knowledge possessed 
by the poet, — that of their varied local names and 
significance. Take the rue for example, — “ we may 
cali it herb o’ grace o’ Sundays” is the quaint remark 
and it was so called because “ me" signified “ ruth ” 
or sorrow, and he “ whom God loveth, he chasteneth.” 
These are the words which Ophelia utters : — 

“ There’s rosemary , that’s for remembrance, pray, 
love, remember ; and there is pansies , that’s for 
“ thoughts. There’s fennel for you, and columbines ; 

“ there’s rue for you, and here’s some for me ; we may 
“call it herb o’ grace o’ Sundays ; you may wear your 
“ rue with a difference. There’s a daisy , — I would 
“ give you some violets , but they withered all when 
“ my father died.” 

Another interesting point in connection with this 
matter is the way in which the names of flowers as 
used by Shakespeare have comedown to us. A^^at- 
ford writer has given some valuable evidence on this 
point. For instance, the white clover, full of sweet- 
ness, is still called “ honey-stalks,” and when we read 
“nothing seems but hateful docks, rough thistles, 
kexes, burs,” we know that “kex”is still ^Jocal 
word. Ophelia’s “ long-purple,” the arum spike; still 
bears that name, and the other she names “ dead 
men’s fingers” as well as that “grossei name ’ which 
the “ liberal shepherds ” give it. Her buttercups , too, 
are still known as “ corn-flowers” ; the lesser celan- 
dines are “ cuckoo-buds,” and pansies “ love in idle- 
ness.” 

The fruits too retain the names the poet has made 
familiar to us. One may still have a “ warden ” 
pear, or one of the “leathern coats” with the like of 
which Davy served Justice Shallow. “Theapple- 
John ” which Falstaff could not endure is still seen 
in English orchards, with the tempting but deceptive 
“ pome-water.” (See Love’s Labour’s Lost. Act 4, 
Scene 2.) 



6 4 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 






— 

WAIT. 



Innumerable changes have come over England in 
the long interval since the poet wrote, but these 
things remain unchanged, and his use of the homely 
words may have helped to perpetuate them. 

1 may take the name “ kex ” as an illustration. 
There are several forms of the word “ kex,” — “ keck 
and kecks,’ “kecksy and kecksies” ; it is a name 
given in several of the counties in England to many 
of the larger unibelliferae , sometimes confined to their 
dry, hollow stems, as in Suffolk and in my own coun- 
ty, Essex. Probably it was first applied only to the 
stems, but transferred afterwards to the plants them- 
selves. In Lincolnshire anything hollow like a “kex” 
is called “kecky.” In Cheshire when celery has a 
tendency to run to seed, it is spoken of as being 
“ kecksy.” 

To be Continued. 

POETRY, 



McGILL. 

(Published through kinduess McGill Song Book Committee). ; 
Should the reservoir break, 

And its effluence take 
A precipitous course down the hill, 

The waters might cover, 

They never could smother, 

Our dear old mother M’Gill. 

Should her stocks go to smash, 

Should her bonds and her cash 
Be purloined from the Governors’ till, 

There still would be plenty 
Fair maidens of twenty 
Less sought than old mother M’Gill. 

Cho : — M’Gill, M’Gill, a mother we’re proud of, she 
Her true, her true, her dutiful children, we. 
Should the lightning come down 
On her weather-beat crown, 

Should the flames batten on her at will, 

’Mid sorrow we’d praise her, 

From ruins we’d raise her. 

We’d rally round mother M’Gill. 

E’en imperious Time 
Has accounted it crime, 

To use her, as he uses us, ill ; 

The years make us hoary. 

But only bring glory 
And homage, to mother M’Gill. 

McGill, McGill, a mother, etc. 

She has given us more 
Than a tarnishing store 
Of treacherous, beggarly gold ; 

She has given us treasures 
Of labors and pleasures, 

And friends who will never grow old. 

We will echo her fame, 

. And our lineage claim, 

And exalt her, embellish, caress; 

To her throughout aeons 
Shall rise joyful paeans, 

From voices of thousands who bless. 

McGill, McGill, a mother, etc. 

C. W. COLBY. 

Entered according to Act of the Parliament of Canada in the year by 
Ckarles William Colby, at the Department of Agriculture. 



Impatieut youth, dost thou aspire 
Achievement’s hill to climb ? 

Deem first the strength thou wilt require ; 
Toil yet and bide thy time. 

The morning star sheds lucent beams 
Athwart the verge of night ; 

But linger till the dawning streams 
In orient floods of light. 

The glebe is plough’d, the clod crush’d fine, 
The seed is ’neath the mould ; 

But show’rs must fall and suns must shine, 
tire turns the green to gold- 

Beneath, the broad foundation grows 
By slow and sure degrees, 

Before the superstructure glows 
With architrave and frieze. 

The master architect, who built 
The eighth, last hill of Rome, 

Saw years of labor ere he gilt 
The cross upon the dome. 

The Master Teacher, though indued 
With superhuman mind. 

Spent thirty years in solitude 
For three to save mankind. 

W. M. MACKERACHER- 



THE ARTSMAN’S WAIL. 

The Medical building is statety. 

The buildings for Science are grand. 

There’s nought that is wrong with the library, 
But where does our Arts building stand ? 

’Tis true that we have wise professors : 

To be sure we’re proud of our Dean 

But inches taller our grads would be 
If Arts rose superb on the scene. 

You may smile and think we’re jesting, 

But know that we write not in fun ; 

E’en fossils and worms have a building, 

And our dear ruin is outdone. 

J- Y. S., ’97. 



FOOTBALL. 



THE NEW ASSOCIATION FOOT-BALL 

CLUB. 

On Monday, the I 2 th inst, announcements appear- 
ed upon the notice-boards in the buildings of the 
different Faculties and affiiliated colleges, of a mass- 
meeting of all Students interested in Association Foot- 
Ball, to be held on the Tuesday evening following, in 
the central building. Accordingly, at 8 p. m. on 
luesday, a goodly number of men, many of whom had 
never met before, but who all were actuated by a 

love for the grand, old Association game, assembled 
in No. i Class-Room. 

Mr. E. E. Howard, president of the Faculty of 



McGILL FORI NIGHTLY. 



65 



Arts, was elected to the chair, and Mr. W. C. Suther- 
land appointed secretary of the meeting. The Chair- 
man made a short address, in the course of which he 
explained what he had found to be the opinion of some 
of the Governors. Fellows and Rugby men and of the 
students in general, regarding the desirability of intro- 
ducing the game into McGill, and the reasons that 
had induced him to put up the notices calling the 
lovers of the game together. Mr. H. B. Fraser, Med. 
’96, made a stirring address in favor of the immediate 
organization of an Association Club in McGill. He 
pointed out that, judging by present indications, the 
success of the game from the very beginning would be 
assured ; that the game would be of great profit to 
hundreds of students who, for various reasons, did not 
play Kugby ; and that McGill had ready material for 
one or more first-class teams. His address elicited 
enthusiastic applause, and the enthusiasm was raised 
to a still higher pitch by rousing speeches from Mr. A. 
P. Brace, Mr. W. C. Sutherland, Mr. A. F. Edwards, 
and others. When Mr. Edwards moved, seconded by 
Mr. Fraser, that the meeting proceed to organize an 
Association Foot-Ball Club in McGill University, the 
motion was carried with an enthusiasm which augured 
well for the future of the enterprise. 

A lively discussion ensued respecting the best mode 
of procedure in the formation of a Club, but it was 
finally decided that the only feasible plan, considering 
the method upon which the sports of the University 
are now being conducted, was to form an organization 
independent of all other student organizations. Ac- 
cordingly the meeting resolved to appoint a commit- 
tee to draft a constitution and to draw up by-laws to 
be submitted for approval to a meeting to be called by 
the Chairman as soon as circumstances allowed. 

The following men were elected to constitute the 
committee Messrs. A. F. Edwards Med. ’96; 
Adam P. Brace, Theology, ’95 5 and Hugh C. Fraser, 
B.A., Med. ’96; while the Chairman, Mr. E. Edwin 
Howard, Arts ‘95, was instructed to act ex-officio on 
the committee. 

The interest exhibited in the movement and the 
spirit of enthusiasm engendered by the meeting are 
highly gratifying to those who have the cause of As- 
sociation Foot-Ball most at heart. The prospects for 
a successful organization in the University are vei) 

bright. 



McGill vs. ’Varsity (Toronto) 

The match between these two Universities, which 
is an annual event, but which was unfortunately not 
played last year, was played on Monday, Nov. 12th, 
on the M.A.A.A. grounds, in the presence of a few 
hundred spectators, the cold weather keeping away a 
large number. Unfortunately the match was to 



some extent bereft of brilliant play, owing to there 
being about six inches of snow on the grounds. 
Considering these difficulties, the match was a good 
one, and was well contested until the last twenty 
minutes of the second half, when superior condition 
told and ’Varsity won, hands down, by 24 points to 
6. The boys from ’Varsity have certainly got a 
very good fifteen, and play well together, their 
back division being especially strong. ’Varsity 
played a dribbling game mostly, and did this most 
effectually at times. Mr. Savage of the Montreal 
Club very kindly acted as referee, and Mr. Gordon 
Macdougall as umpire. 

The following were the teams : 



’ Varsity. 




McGill. 


Norris. 


Back 


Brunnelle. 


Gilmour. j 




( Leslie. 


Kingstone. \- 


l / 2 Backs 


-| Drinkwater. 


Campbell. ) 




(_ Dandurand. 


Councell. 


X Back 


Davidson. 


McRea. 'j 




( Gordon. 


Mallock. 


Scrimmage 


’ Drum (Cap.) 


Jackson. J 




(. Grace. 


Barr. "1 




f Schwartz. 


Laid low. 




| Tees. 


Kingstone. | 




> Hill. 


Draper. y 


Wings. 


-<( A. Barclay. 


Moss. 




| Turner. 


Cloyes (Capt.). j 




j J. Barclay. 


Robinson. J 




(^Irving. 


In the evening ‘ Varsity men ' 


ivere dined at the 



Queen’s Hotel by the McGill Football Club. It was 
a pity that our guests had to leave that evening at 
8.45, thereby curtailing many brillant speeches 
and shortening what is one of the happiest features 
on these Intercollegiate matches, viz., the inter- 
change of ideas and good wishes between the two 
Universities. Speeches were made by Messrs. 
McRea, president ; Cloyes, Captain ; McAllister, 
manager of ’Varsity ; and by Messrs. Angus, presi- 
dent, and Drum, captain, of McGill. Messrs. Bu- 
chanan and Savage of the Montreal Club, and Mr. 
Gordon McDougall, president of the Quebec Rugby 
Football Union, also gave brief speeches. Songs 
were given by Messrs. McAllister and McRea 
of ’Varsity, and Messrs. Cowie and McDougall of 
McGill. At 8 30 all joined hands, and that old yet 
never forgotten “ Auld Lang Syne ” was sung very 
heartily. Then all adjourned to the Windsor Street 
Station, and gave the ’Varsity boys a farewell cheer. 
Some of the McGill team accompanied their ’Varsity 
friends as far as Montreal Junction. 



ARTS ’97 vs. SCIENCE ’97. 

On Friday, Nov. 9th, the “battle of the giants” 
took place on the campus, the giants being 2nd 



66 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Science against 2nd Arts. The match was a most 
interesting one in many ways, and was thoroughly 
enjoyed by a goodly number of enthusiastic under- 
graduates of both Faculties. The Science men won 
by 26 points to 8, which is by no means a good crit 
erion of the play, as till within the last fifteen minutes 
of the match the play was very even. It was the 
superior conditiorT of the Science men that told in the 
end, and the way the Arts boys went to pieces that 
won the match for Science. Such matches are excel- 
lent practice for men playing on any of the three 
teams. They also bring forth a great amount of 
hidden talent and the very thing needed for getting 
men out to play foot-ball. 

For Arts, Hill was very brilliant, but C. Howard, 
Ker, McMaster and Trenholme played in great 
style. For Science, Me-srs. Davidson, Drinkwater, 
Wilkinson and Burnham played very well. 



SOCIETIES. 



Y. M. C. A. 

On the 1 ith inst. Sir William Dawson lectured on 
the subject, “ Egypt in relation to Israel.” He dis- 
cussed three questions, When ? How ? and Why ? 
did Israel go to Egypt ? To the first question he an- 
swered that the actual sojourn of two hundred and six- 
teen years from Jacob to the Exodus began in the 
reign of the great Egyptian monarch Thothmes III. 1 
The immediate cause of thus going to Egypt was the 
ungenerous action of Joseph’s brothers in selling him 
to the Medianite merchants. This crime was over- 
ruled for good by Providence. For it was apparently 
part of His plan that the chosen family-should receive 
part of their training in Egypt. There they came in 
contact with a high state of civilization, and, more- 
over, owing to the conservatism of the Egyptians, 
they were more likely to preserve their identity, and 
be kept from the dangers of assimilation with 
heathen tribes to which they were exposed in 
Canaan. 

On the 1 8th, Prof. Ross, B.D., again lectured on his 
former theme, “ Progress in Revelation,” as exempli- 
fied in the life of Moses. Moses he regarded as a 
very fitting person by whom the Lord might reveal 
still more of His will and attributes. In the incident 
of the burning bush the doubts and fears of Moses 
were allayed. The Lord there made known the 
grand destiny of His chosen people and also His own 
self-sufficiency and immutability. The Mosaic legis- 
lation and ceremonial institutions were also shown to 
be further revelations of God’s will and character. 
And from the fact that there is progress in revelation, 
we may properly draw the inference that institutions 



and customs which may have been allowed in early 
times are no longer in vogue when a more recent 
revelation clearly abrogates them. From the very 
nature of humanity God’s moral government had to 
be a thing of gradual development. But that 
development has been certain, and should be lecog- 
nized. Hence, to argue in favor of such things as 
slavery, polygamy, the unrestricted use of intoxicants 
as a beverage, is to ignore this principle, it is to turn 
the hands of time backwards by eighteen hundred or 
three thousand years. 

These lectures are very interesting, and should 
receive the attention of all students who are inter- 
ested in matters of deepest concern to the human 
race. 

Meetings for next fortnight as follows: — 

Nov. 25. The Chosen Nation, by Mrs. Ashley 

Carus-Wilson, B.A. 

Dec. 2. The Miracles of the Exodus, by Sir Wm. 

Dawson, F.R.S., etc. 

Next Sunday, after our regular meeting, Mr. Sher- 
wood Eddy, a graduate of Yale, and now of Union 
Seminary, will speak on Poreign Missions. Every 
one should hear him. 



McGILL LITERARY SOCIETY. 

The regular meeting of the Society was held on 
Friday evening, Nov. 9th, in No. I Class-room. Presi- 
dent Hanson in the chair. The minutes of the last 
meeting were read by the Secretary, and confirmed. 

The gentleman who was expected to give a read- 
ing was not present, so Mr. McMaster, of Arts ’9 7 » 
treated the meeting to a song, which called forth 
hearty applause. Mr. Tooke, Arts ’95, then read an 
essay on the Psychology of Music. 

The subject for debate was : “ Resolved, that 

woman is the intellectual equal of man.” Mr. Hopkins, 
Arts ’95, opened the debate by defending the resolu- 
tion, which he did in a very clear and forcible manner. 

Mr. Symmes, Arts ’95, then dealt with the question 
for the negative, and his remarks were very well ren- 
dered with a well-developed element of wit. 

Mr. Plopkins for the affirmative was assisted by 
Messrs. McBean, Science ’97, and Bishop, Arts ’98, 
while Messrs. Bullock, Science ’98, and Russel, Arts 
’97, spoke for the negative. At the close of the debate 
the meeting decided in favor of the affirmative. A 
pleasing feature in the debate was the manner in which 
Messrs. Bishop and Bullock discussed the subject at 
issue, which shows that the Society is to derive con- 
siderable assistance from the Freshmen of the two 
Faculties these gentlemen represent. 

Mr. H. Young, Arts ’95, then criticized the pro- 
ceedings in an able and pleasing manner, after which 
the meeting adjourned. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



67 



A special meeting of this Society was held on 
Monday, November 12th, to consider the question of 
sending a representative to the annual dinner of the 
Literary Society of Trinity College, Toronto. 

It was moved by Mr. Wallace, seconded by II. 
Young : “ That we do not send a representative to this 
dinner.” Moved in amendment by Mr. Sutherland, 
and seconded by Mr. E. E. Howard: “That as Mr. 
S. Graham has offered to go to Trinity College, pay- 
ing one-half of his expenses himself, he be our repre- 
sentative.” 

The amendment was carried, the meeting then 
adjourned. 



CLASSICAL CLUB. 

The regular fortnightly meeting of the McGill 
Classical Club was held in the Classical Seminary 
room of the Library, Wednesday, November 14th, 
President Mackintosh presiding. 

The committee had prepared an excellent pror 
gramme, of which a pleasant feature was an essay on 
the Roman Theatres, by Mr. Ferguson, Arts ’96. 

Mr. A. C. Howard, Arts ’97, then read a selection 
from Terrence with great feeling and expression. 

The third and last item was the translation of Act 
III of Phormio. The following gentlemen took part: 
Mr. Mackintosh ’95, Mr. W. G. C ole ’96, Mr. Heine 
’98, Mr. D. W. Munn ’98, Mr. A. C. P. Howard ’97, 
Mr. H. Mackay ’97, Mr. A. Ross ’97, Mr. J. G. Saxe 

’ 97 . 

The strong reaction of an English motion of adjourn- 
ment after such classic reading “knocked up” the 
members to such a degree, that it was some time 
before they were prepared to battle with such non- 
classical subjects as common “ windns rainaque .” 



McGILL MINING SOCIETY. 

The regular fortnightly meeting of the McGill 
Mining Society was held in the old Science building, 
on Friday, November 9th. President Carlyle in the 
chair. The minutes of the previous meeting were 
read and adopted. 

Mr. Whitehead moved, seconded by Mr. Hart, that 
the secretary correspond with the secretary of the 
General Mining Association of the Province of 
Quebec, and learn if they would propose some terms 
by which our Society could become affiliated with 
theirs. 

The first part of the evening was taken up by Mr. 
Van Barneveld, who read a very instructive paper on 
Notes on the Vale Section of the Pictou Coal Fields. 

The remainder cf the evening was occupied by 
Mr. Mussen, Sc. ’9 6, who read a very interesting and 



instructive paper on Life in the L iurentian Seas. After 
some discussion on the papers by the President, 
Messrs. Whiteside, Hart and others, the meeting 
adjourned. 



MEDICAL SOCIETY. 

Since the last issue ofTilE FORTNIGHTLY, the 
Medical Society has held two meetings. The first 
meeting on Nov. 3rd was purely business, and the 
principal matter was the election of Arthur Gunn to 
fill the president’s office, lately vacated by A. Cruik- 
shanks. 

The second meeting, Saturday, 17th inst., was the 
greatest success of the season, owing to the fact that 
James Stewart, M.D., had consented to lecture on 
the interesting subject of Hypnotism. At 8 o’clock 
p. m, when Dr. Stewart made his appearance, the 
largest lecture theatre in the building was packed to 
overflowing with professors and students from all 
Faculties and many outsiders who were attracted by 
the announcement of the subject. Doctor Stewart 
treated the subject in an exhaustive manner, but 
regretted that he was unable to procure a suitable 
subject for demonstration. 

He began, after the applause had ceased, by ex- 
plaining the mechanism of the little instrument 
(Sarco’s) which he uses for this work. It consists princi- 
pally of a small, bright, metallic ball, which is so sup- 
ported from the head of the patient that it hangs 
about 3 inches in front of and about 2 inches above 
the eyes. The patient gazes steadfastly upon this 
bright ball, and in a few seconds, or minutes at most, 
he succumbs to the effects, and slumbers. The ex- 
planation of this phenomenon, according to Heiden- 
hiun, consists in the tiring of the nerves, which sec- 
ondarily affects the cortex of the cerebrum in such a 
manner as to inhibit the functions of the governing 
centres. Not only will this gazing on a bright 
object produce the hypnotic effects, but fright, ring- 
ing of gongs and bells, etc., may produce them. 

The different stages of Hypnotism according to 
degrees of profoundness are : — 

1st. Drowsiness, either slight or deep. 

2nd. Cataleptic ; characterized by a sleepy feeling 
and the tendency of limbs to remain in any position 
in which they are placed. 

3rd. Automatic obedience ; in which patient will 
comply with any suggestions. 

4th. Anaesthetic ; all sensation to pain is lost. 

5th. Somnambulic; slight or deep. When patient 
awakes, after having passed through these last two 
stages, he docs not remember his actions. Slight 
operations can be performed in these stages. 

Sarco, the great French specialist, has noticed 
that of 1000 persons he could not hypnotize 37. He 



68 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



could carry 450 through the 1st stage; 353 through 
2nd and 3rd stages, and 160 through the last two 
stages. This proves that most people can be hyp- 
notized — at least, to a certain extent. The East 
Indians are specially prone to hypnotism, even 50 
per cent, to 60 per cent, may be carried to the stages 
when operations can be performed. 

The phenomena of Hypnotism are of various 
kinds. The senses may be modified : increased, dim- 
inished or perverted. The sensation of touch may 
be modified : the muscles of the body may become 
completely under the control of the hypnotizer. If 
it is suggested to a patient that he has a blister on 
his arm, he may awake to find it so. All the mus- 
cles may be paralysed, leaving the patient helpless. 
But the principal phenomena are delusions, hallu- 
cinations and illusions. Patient may be made to 
eat imaginable oysters, or relish onions as if they 
were apples, or drink water and claim that it is 
champagne, or again he may drink a glass of beer, 
and if told that it is an emetic, antiperistalsis will 
result. 

Many objections to the use of Hypnotism thera- 
peutically are advanced. However, nothing in science 
is ever advanced without adverse criticism, and 
this criticism, together with stimulated scientific in- 
vestigations, always leads to the success of science. 
The dangers of this practice, when used therapeuti- 
cally and by an honest and clever person, are reduced 
to a minimum. If the patient happens to be ill 
afterwards, the ignorant person will blame the hyp- 
notism on the same grounds that “the inhabitants 
of a certain village in Fiance ceased eating a certain 
kind of soup, because an elderly lady who had eaten 
of this soup fell downstairs a short while afterwards 
and was killed.” If proper suggestions are made and 
if the patient is wakened slowly, no bad results can 
occur. 

Hysteiia, nervous dyspepsia, neurasthenia, etc,, 
can be completely cured by proper handling and 
suggestions. Sixty-five to seventy-five per cent, of 
people can be hypnotized, and most neurotics can be 
hypnotised to the last stages, and are consequently 
more easily cured. All kinds of pain, neuralgia, 
sleeplessness, loss of appetite, chorea, etc., may be 
soothed and influenced with much benefit. Insane 
persons are difficult to hypnotize; however, the more 
acute and slighter cases may be benefited. Even in 
the first stage much good can be done by proper and 
healthy suggestions. It is in hysterical diseases that 
most good can be done. Dr. Stewart passed 
around some photographs of a sailor whose arm 
had been so paralyzed while at sea that he was 
unable to work. The sailor was brought to the Mont- 
real General Hospital, and came under Dr. Stewart’s 
notice. From the manner of the contraction of the 



paralyzed arm, he recognized at once that it was of 
hysterical origin, and after hypnotizing him only five 
times he effected a complete cure. Of late years alco- 
holism is being treated by hypnotic suggestions, but as 
a rule these are not cured, because they are either or- 
ganically diseased, or the hypnotic influence of their 
friends “ calls them back again.” Again, unless an in- 
dividual is willing and desirous of being hypnotized, 
the experiment is impossible. 

At the close of the lecture, Dr. Stewart was most 
enthusiastically applauded. He had delivered a 
most interesting and instructive lecture. 



MONTREAL VETERINARY MEDICAL 
ASSOCIATION. 

The regular meeting of the Association was held 
in the Lecture room, 6 Union ave., Thursday evening, 
1 5th inst. The Experimental Committee submitted 
a report in which some experiments on the physiolo- 
gical action and therapeutic value of antipyretics were 
outlined for the ensuing year. 

Dr. N. D. Gunn was elected to honorary member- 
ship, also one new active member was admitted. 
After elections, Mr. Cleaves read a paper on Glanders. 
The intense virulence, fatal issue, and ready commu- 
nicability of this disease mark it as one of the most 
important with which the veterinarian has to deal. 
Mr. Cleaves’ thorough paper was of much service in 
adding to the knowledge of the student audience. 

Mr. Cutting reported a case of Tympanites in a 
hoise. Dr. McEachran made a few remarks upon the 
lung lesions of pleuro-pneu monia in explanation of 
a painting of the lung in which a piece of thorn had 
lodged, and produced almost identical changes. 

The Association will hold the next meeting on 
Thursday, 29th inst. 



SOCIETY FOR THE STUDY OF COM- 
PARATIVE PSYCHOLOGY. 

The above named Society met last Tuesday even- 
ing, at No. 6 Union ave., with the President, Dr. 
Wesley Mills, in the chair. 

After roll call and transaction of general business, 
Mr. C. H. Zink read an exceedingly interesting 
paper on the subject of Fear, in which he described 
the physical and psychical manifestations of this 
emotion. 

An animated discussion followed the reading of 
the paper, in which a number of the members took 
part. 

The President spoke in eulogistic terms of the ori- 
ginal and scientific treatment of the subject by Mr. 
Zink, and expressed himself as of the opinion that it 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



6 9 



was the best paper that had ever been read before 

the Society. 

Messrs. Lehnert and Thurston will read at the next 
meeting. 



DELTA SIGMA SOCIETY. 

“If you have tears, prepare to shed them now,” ye 
Donaldas who were not at our last meeting ! The 
life and writings of a woman poet surely interest all 
college women, and especially when treated in the 
excellent way in which they were at this meeting. 
The Life of Elizabeth Barret Browning was the sub- 
ject of Miss Galt’s essay, and her poems that of Miss 
Holden’s. A thorough knowledge and love of the 
subject as well as much critical ability were displayed 
in these essays so greatly enjoyed by those present. 
From these intellectual heights we descended to our 
“ little nonsense now and then,” namely, an im- 
promptu debate : — Resolved, that the World would 
be Unendurable without Pins. Miss Ross and Miss 
M. Cameron upheld the affirmative ; Miss Walbridge 
and Miss Pitcher the negative. The negative won 
by such a large majority that the “slovenly,” “dan- 
gerous,” “ wrath-producing” pin will never again dare 
to show his shiny head within our walls. 

And now, ye Absentees, what more could we offer 
you ? We have wept over “ The Cry of the Child- 
ren,” and you have not wept with us ; we have 
laughed, and you did not make merry with us. 

Were you being “ educated” in the meantime ? Let 
Wordsworth speak to you about education : 

“ Enough of science and of art ; 

Close up these barren leaves ; 

Come forth and bring with you a heart 
That listens and receives.” 



GLASS REPORTS. 

FEATHERS FROM EAST WING. 

Junior , translating : “ Ein wohltabender Mann, 

und noch ledig,” “ a well-off man and still free.” 
Professor : “Oh, no; a bachelor.” 

Junior : “ What’s the difference ?” 

Second Junior : “Und was das Beste dabei ist,” 
“ what would the beast gain by it ? ” 

Donalda, translating : “ L’appetit vient a manger,” 
“ The little one comes eating.” 

The Donaldas are watching with interest the devel- 
opment of the scheme for a skating rink in the college 
grounds, as it is the only college sport they might 
be able to join in. 

We hope, when our minds are freed from their pre- 
sent weighty responsibility, namely, the task of paying 
for our piano, to form a glee club that will bring forth 
much hidden talent and develop musical ability. 



What an “ unprincipaled” place McGill still is! 
From a cockney ; 

My first is a bird as ‘ops, 

My second grows has hany other crop c , 

My ole is heat with mutton chops.” — Answer. 



LEGAL BRIEFS. 

We hear that the few specimens of reportorial wit 
which have found their way into our column up to 
date have had a most depressing effect upon the 
Freshmen. Last issue’s instalment of poetry, we be- 
lieve, especially, spread disorder among the new con- 
tingent. We sympathize as to the first,, and desire to 
offer a few words explanatory as to the latter. As 
to the poetry then, why should the old and highly 
respectable Faculty of Law take a back seat in matter 
of college verse ? Have not the Vets, their poetaster, 
and what may we not expect from Science and Medi- 
cine ? as to Arts we have long watched with admir- 
ation and delight the career of Cap’n Goun in the 
realm of rhyme. He is copious, readyy regular, and 
he rhymes. Long may he flourish to sing college 
event. So long then as the college authorities do not 
intervene to suppress the tribe, the Law Class Re- 
porter claims the right to grind his little verse. But 
we hasten to assure the First Year men that the worst 
is over — the ice has been broken, and after the first 
shock they will inure to it. We took the precaution 
to interlard our last with prose, and we hereby engage 
not to spring any of the “ Simon pure” on the class 
without two full weeks’ notice. 

As to the wit — here we sympathize. Let us give 
these novel gentlemen a morsel of good advice culled 
from our personal experience. In our first year we 
felt the identical feeling complained of. It was in 
fact a nervous disorder recurring every two weeks — 
in a word, the regular and systematic prosecution of 
our studies was threatened by every issue of the 
FORTNIGHTLY. We were determined, however, that 
the effusions of the class room wit should not upset 
us in our pious intention to absorb the principles of 
law, and consequently we took heroic measures. 
Before opening the FORTNIGHTLY we made sure that 
our supply of pain killer was not in need of replenish- 
ment and that hot water and lemons were within easy 
reach. Having taken these wise and necessary 

precautions, we sat down and faced the Legal 
Briefs. Fortified from without as indicated, and 
possessed inwardly with a dogged determination to 
win, it is not reasonable to suppose that we failed. 
We triumphed. We fought and worried through 
every joke and class room witticism, and came out on 
top. As time passed, we became more seasoned to 
the semi-mensual flow of jocularity, and of course as 
our knowledge of the enemy increased the advantage 



70 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



was on our side. Towards Xmas the precautionary 
measures alluded to were dispensed with, and in 
April we could read the Legal Briefs in the class 
room, and no thought of having a fit or of having to 
be carried out into the open air ever once occurred 
to us. 

Try Davis’ white painkiller, gentlemen ; it’s a great 
neive fortifier. 

The old boys drop in occasionally to see us. 
Last week we were favored with a visit from the 
medalist and the valedictorian of the class of ’94. 
Messrs. Hogle and MacDougall. 

Theatre night proved one thing, viz., that the Fac- 
ulty of Law has the best Faculty cry of the Univer- 
sity ; as it may not be familiar to the Third Year men, 
we give it in full : — 

Law, Law, Law, 

Rhymes with jaw 
Hip, Hip. Hurrah ! 

Law ! 

What some deluded people think: — 

1. That the graduating class in Law will not work 
next year. 

2. That there is a royal road to study Law. 

3. That the Law students have not much work to 
do. 

4. That the Faculty owl is not all right. 

5. That the Faculty of Law has not its own 
Sin(n). 

6. That the freshmen are not working. 

7. That the boys will pass the Xmas Exams. 

A meeting of the Moot Court was held on the 
8th instant, Prof. Lafleur presiding. The subject 
discussed was one on Community of Property, and 
was argued in remarkably good style. 

Messrs. E. B. Devlin and C. Mansur for Plaintiffs, 
and Messrs R. Barron and C. Duclos for Defendants. 

ARTS NOTES. 

Professor (holding up a piece of chalk) : “ The 
earth is attracting this chalk towards itself, but it is 
also being attracted towards the chalk.” 

Student : “ Then, sir, you are lifting the earth ? ” 

Professor : “ Hem ! just so.” 

The Fourth Year held a meeting to make arrange- 
ments concerning the Class Photo. The general 
opinion seemed to be, that the matter should be 
arranged as early as possible, but Mr. S — th object- 
ed. “ Have? you not observed,” said he, “ that Mr. 
R — s and myself, the two best looking men in the 
Year, have just started dainty mustaches? It would 
be a shame to have the Photo, taken before they 
have had time to develop.” T — m : “ Could they 
not be painted on ? ” 



Classical Prof.: “ Gentlemen, in looking over your 
exercises, I noticed what the scholiast called 
magnet cotiscnsio manuscriptorum. We desire indivi- 
dual work.” 

“The human frame,” said the Professor in 
Mechanics, “ is constructed on the worst principle 
for securing median cal advantage. To secure this, 
we should be built on the principle of derricks and 
cranes, which might cause us inconvenience in some 
other respects.” 

Some College (?) bard has given us Freshmen a 
bit of advice that may be deemed salutary by many. 
Nevertheless, your reporter must take his chance of 
being dubbed “ cheeky” and do a little horn-blowing 
on behalf of his Year. He would have it known to 
the readers of the FORTNIGHTLY that out of twenty- 
three points won by Arts on Sports’ Day, sixteen 
fell to the credit of the First Year. Those who 
were so earnest in their appeals to “ the Babies,” to 
, enter in as many events as possible, “in order to 
pile up a score for Arts,” must have been struck 
dumb at the result of their efforts. They have been 
silent on the subject ever since. 



Without wishing to be too severe on the highly 
intelligent Sophomores, your reporter wishes to 
remark that it is a great pity to rank the Sophs.’ yell 
among those things which are “ always good.” It 
really smacks of something we have heard before. 
Let us have more originality, as, for example : 

Biff ! Bang ! ! Blow ! ! ! 

Ha ! He ! ! Ho ! ! ! 

Nonaginta octo ! 

Arts ! ! ! 



SCIENCE JOTTINGS. 

C e 95 (ambitious to gather whatever frag- 

ments of knowledge may come his way): “How 
many volts are there in an ampere ? ” 

One of the most attractive features of our College 
life is the firm friendships formed here ; and often 
when the final \ ear is reached certain pairs of 
Students become almost inseparable. A practical 
demonstration of this is daily noticeable in certain 
members of ’95 whose continually expressed desire 
is “come to me” or “ I’ll go to you.” 



' ?j) raris Dy 

SS. “Vancouver.” He will spend a few mon 

visiting relations in company with his brother Lc 
also be. 93), who has recently graduated v 
honors from the Institut Montefiore, and is abou 
enter the Engineering corps of the French army. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



7i 



MEDICAL REPORTS. 

The latest and most interesting topic is the an- 
nouncement ofthe annual dinner of the Meds., which 
will be held at the St. Lawrence Hall, on Thursday, 
the 29th inst. This practice of holding an annual 
dinner dates back to the Archaean period of the Col- 
lege history, and has always been the grandest event 
of the scholastic year. It is the one occasion in the 
year when the Freshmen and Sophs, can come with 
impunity in presence of the Professors, and forget the 
physiological relation between an overloaded stomach 
and nightmare. Even the stolid Seniors and Finals 
think not of the misery of the dyspeptics whom they 
see at the Out-door ; and the Professors themselves 
heartily join with their medical offspring in enjoying 
the delicious delusiveness of culinary art. 

All restraint is put aside, and the Professor dis- 
cusses with the Freshman the good dishes before 
them. In fact, this is the unique occasion for bring- 
ing together, in an amicable manner, the students 
and professors, in one homogeneous mass, the results 
of which are most desirable and beneficial. 

We hope that all the Students will attend and make 
this event a rousing success. 

The dinner officials elected from the Fourth Year 
are : 

John Tees, president ; A. A. MacLeay and H. 
Hogle, management committee ; J. H. Allen and R. 
Neil, reception committee. 

With John Tees, the veteran athlete, presiding over 
this event, nothing could be more satisfactory ; for, 
considering his capacity for eating, etc., we feel sure 
he will set an example sufficient to satisfy the most 
voracious individual. The others are also most capa- 
ble to fill their several offices. 

We notice a subscription list, in connection with 
the skating rink scheme, hanging on our notice board 
and inviting signatures. Many are signing it, and 
enthusiastically wishing it to materialize. 

The elections for two representatives for the dinner, 
and one for the Reception Committee from the Third 
Year, took place on the 12th inst. ; each was hotly con- 
tested, and resulted as follows : — 

D. D. McTaggart, B.A.Sc. ; W. N. Kendrick, 
Dinner Committee ; R. B. Whyte, Reception Com- 
mittee. 

Mr. McTaggart is he, to whom, it will be remem- 
bered, so much of the success of our dinner of 1893 
was due, and who has had so much experience in this 
direction ; and Mr. Kendrick, who is untiring in his 
efforts for the benefit of his class. That the dinner 
will be a good one and the interests of the Third Year 
will be well looked after goes without saying. In 
Mr. Whyte for the reception, we have a man who is 
in every way capable of upholding with all credit the 
time-honored reputation of McGill Medicals for hos- 
pitality and bonhomie. 



Professor , emphatically : ! “ It is an accepted fact 

that cerebral abscesses occur twice as often in the 
cerebrum than in the cerebellum and the guileless 
students wrote it down. 

COMPARATIVE MEDICINE CLASS 
REPORTS. 

After considerable delay the course of lectures on 
Pharmacology and Therapeutics has been arranged 
in what we hope will prove a satisfactory manner. 
A strong feeling of respect and confidence on the 
one hand, and interest and consideration on the other, 
seems to be growing among the Students and 
Faculty. Harmony is the watchward of the hour, 
and all is merry “ as a marriage bell.” 

Dr. R. H. Grattan, ’94, of Preston, Minn., has 
suffered from a severe attack of paralysis of the lower 
limbs, but is now on the road to recovery. 

Dr. Geo. A. Miller, ’91, made a short visit to Mon- 
treal during last week. 



Dr. Bryden is slowly recovering from his severe ill- 
ness. 



Ben B. is still studying the Race Problem — how 
to get to breakfast and back in ten minutes. 



Mamma : “ Daughter, Mr. DrysX.or\ must not call 

if he remains until midnight.” 

Daughter : “ Why, mamma, what makes you 

think he stays so late ?” 

Mamma : “ I heard him say as he left you last 

night ‘just one’.” 

In Botany class : — 

H — 11 : “Are names grown upon a pumpkin 

necessarily the result of writings on the parent seed ? ” 

Prof.: “ I believe the writings have the same origin 

as the dates of laying inscribed on eggs in grocery 
shops.” 

Chemistry C{ Sup ” Two Dollars great ! 

The destiny of student’s fate ; 

To escape thee one must lee 
On the back of one’s pony . 

Although the dangers are not few 
Yet some in safety journey through ; 

And if the way be rough and stony, 

All depends upon the pony. 

One of the Third Year men will shortly publish 
the result of his studies on the “ Somnambulism of 
the Amoeba.” 

A feeling is current among the Second Year men 
that the course in Practical Chemistry should be 
added to the list of First Year subjects. 



7 2 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



A CHRISTMAS SOUVENIR. 

The Publishers of the Metropolitan, Montreal’s so- 
ciety and literary journal, are issuing a Christmas 
number, which will be ready on December 4th, and ' 
from all accounts will be a work of art, besides being 
half the price of the other annuals. Mr. W. M. Macker- 
acher, B.A., formerly editor of the FORTNIGHTLY, is 
contributing several choice poems which are a credit 
to him and to old McGill. The number will contain 
• articles, stories and poems by some of Canada’s shin- 
ing literary lights, as will be seen from the table of 
contents which we publish herewith. 

THE CHRISTMAS “METROPOLITAN.” 

TABLE OF CONTENTS. 

Christmas — Poem by Geo. Murray, F.R.S.C- Full page mag- 
nificently illustrated. 

The Magic Fiddler — By J. M Lemoine, F.R.S.C. A Mardi 
Gras Legend of the St. Lawrence. 

Origin of the Significance of Parliamentary Rules in Canada — 
By Dr. J. M. Bourinot, Clerk of the House of 
Commons. 

Recollections of Oliver Wendell Holmes — By Geo. Stewart, 
D.C-L. This sketch is largely made up of 
unpublished letters of the late Autocrat. 

Bcbe ” — Poem founded on Ouida’s celebrated story, by A. G. 
Doughty, M.A. 

The Bride' s Tragedy — A tale of Italy, by Geo. Murray, F.R.S.C. 
The Masque of Time — Poem illustrating the months of the 
year, by Arthur Weir. 

Within a Year — A beautiful story by “Galatea,” one of Can- 
ada’s leading writers. 

The New Old Story — By W. M. MacKeracher, B.A. 

Marguerite — By Miss Helen Fairbairn, a story of to-day. 
Rose-Perdita— By Miss Beatrice Glen Moore, a tale of F'rench 
Canada. 

A Beautiful Story — (Name not yet known), by Dr. W. G. Beers. 
How I was Unmasked — By Edgar Smith, a comic sketch. 
Christmas Eve — Poem by John Macfarlane. 

A Bluebell — Poem by Robert Reid. 

Winter Woods— Poem by Keppell .Strange. 

It will be seen from the above that the Christmas 
Metropolitan will, besides being a work of art, be a 
veritable literary treasure, which the McGill Profes- 
sors as well as the Students will wish to keep. 

Take, for example, the article by Dr. Bourinot- 
This celebrated writer is the best authority in Canada 
on Parliamentary rules and proceedings, and the 
“Origin of the Significance” is at the same time in- 1 
structive and deeply interesting. 

Then, again, note the sketch by Dr. Stewart of 
Quebec: Unpublished Letters of Oliver Wendell 

Holmes, with comments by the writer, who was a close 
friend of the late autocrat. This will be appreciated 
by at least all literary people. 

Mr. J. M. LeMoine’s sketch is humorous and 
worthy of the eminent author. 

Mr. Geo. Murray’s writings are too well known in 
Montreal to require much comment ; suffice to say that 
“The Bride’s Tragedy” is one of his best stories. 



Dr. Beers is without doubt one of the most pleasing 
writers in Canada, and his story for the Christmas 
Metropolitan will be read with the greatest intensity 
by everyone. The McGill Boys, however, know the 
Doctor, and will ferret out his writings. 

Messrs. A. G. Doughty, M.A., Arthur Weir and 
the other contributors have done themselves credit in 
the number. 

The whole work will be magnificently illustrated, 
while the cover is the finest that ever appeared 
on a Canadian Christmas annual. 

The Supplement, entitled “Types of Canadian 
Beauty,” will be a beautiful group of faces composed 
of portraits of Montreal Society belles and those of 
other cities. Needless to say, this novel and pretty 
idea will be much better liked than a gaudy chromo. 

The whole number will consist of twenty-four 
pages, supplement and cover, and will be sold tubed 
and ready for mailing for 25 cents. December 4th 
is the date fixed for the publication, but as the edition 
will be limited, it is safer to order in advance from 
newsdealers. The number will prove a prettier and 
more acceptable gift than a card, while the price is 
merely nominal, viz., 25 cents. This will be the only 
Christmas number published in Montreal this year, 
and it will be thoroughly Canadian in every respect. 



The name of W. T. Carleton, the well known baritone, connected 
with any musical enterprise is a sufficient guarantee that the organiza 
tion is above reproach. The eminent singer heads the list of artists who 
will appear at the Acaderpy of Music for one week, commencing Mon- 
day, Nov. 26, with Matinee Saturday, with the Carleton Comedy 
Opera Company. The entertainment promised is of a highly refined 
character, comprising two complete comedy operas from the pen of the 
late Alfred Cellier, the famous composer of Dorothy. The Spectre 
Knight will be given as a curtain raiser, followed by The Charity 
Girls. The first is constructed on romantic lines, and affords Mr. Car- 
lelon excellent range for his rich and flexible voice. In this opera he 
takes the role of Otho the lover of Viola. The latter part is sung by 
Miss Rena Atkinson of London. It is rich in melody and pleasing 
situations. The Spectre Knight will be followed by the Charity Girls, a 
genuine comic opera in one act, with choruses and all the action 
and funny situations of the modem production. Mr. Carleton sings 
the role of Bumpus, the unpleasant beadle, to the Susan of Miss Ada 
Walker of London. Both operas were originally produced in London 
with great success where they ran for 600 nights. They were then taken 
to New York and had an unprecedented run of 450 nights. 

AGADEMYHfiUMUSKD 

HENRY THOMAS, Lessee and Manager. 

One week commencing MONDAY, Nov. 26th 

OKI.V MATINEE SATURDAY. 

THE CARLETON COMEDY OPERA CO. 

PRESENTING 

Tie Spectre Kill am T|e Glarliy mis 

By ALFRED CELLIER, the Composer of “ Dorothy.” 

COO nights in London. 450 nights in New York. a Great Cast 

Gorgeous Scenery. 

PRICES. 25c, 50c, 75c, $ 1.00 . 

Seats on Sale at Nordheimer’s and Walker’s, Jeweller, St. Catherine St. 

COMING— HANLON’S “ SUPERBA 



