Vol.'XI 



No. 7 




Printed by the Burland Lith. Co., Montreal, 









UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, Guerin & Greenshields, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, &c., 

Chambers: Exchange Bank Building, 

1728 NOTRE DAME STREET, - - MONTREAL 

J. N. Greenshields. Edmond Guerin. R. A. E- Greenshields. 

ROBERTSON, FLEET k FALCONER, 

ADVOCATES, 

157 ST. CT A3VLES STREET, 
MONTREAL. 



Atwater & Mackie, 

Advocates, Barristers, Commissioners, k, 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 St. James St., Montreal. 



MACMASTER, HUTCHINSON, WEIR & McLENNAN, 

ADVOCATES, 

BARRISTERS, SOLICITORS, &c., 
175 St. James St., Montreal, 

DONALD MACMASTER, Q.C. R. S. WEIR, B.C.L. 

M. HUTCHINSON, B.CL. p. s. MCLENNAN, B.C.L. 



CHAPLEAU, HALL, NICOLLS & BROWN, 



ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Commissioners, &c., 



117 St. James 

Hon. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. 

JOHN S. HALL, Jr. 



St., Montreal. 

ARMINE D. NICOLLS. 
ALBERT. J BROWN. 



CRTJICKSHANK & ELLIOT, 

Advocates, Barristers, etc., 

90 ST. JAMES STREET, CITY. 



McCIBBON & MAJOR, 

iLdvocates, Barristers, etc., 

STANDARD BUILDING, 

157 St. James Street. 



A. PERIARD, 

Law Bookseller, Publisher, Importer 4 Legal Stationer, 

23 ST. TAMES ST., 

(NEAR THE COURT-HOUSE,) 

MONTREAL. 





Bandages, Etc, 



MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 

W. A. DYER & CO., 
Pkarminlial J Jispsim Cliiisls, 

14 & 16 Phillips Square, Cor St. Catherine St, 

MONTREAL. 

Bandages, Roller, Muslin, 

Bandages, Cotton, 

Bandages. Absorbent, 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze, 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, Assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent, 

Cotton Wool, Borated, 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated, 

Cotton wool, Sublimated. 

Drainage Tubes, Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent, 

Gauze, Borated, 

Gauze, Carbolized, 

Gauze, Eucalyptol. 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze, Naphthalin, 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill ; Inhalers, Celluloid, 

Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached, 

Jute, Absorbent, 

Jute, Carbolized, 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated ; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels ; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes ; 
Sponges, Antiseptic; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain; Sponges, 
Gamgee’s Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies’. 



HEADQUARTERS 

-FOR— 

School and (lollop Text Bools ! 



DRYSDALE’S 

232 ST. CTJ^IMIIES ST. 



MEDICAL WORKS, BOOKS VS Kit IJY ART COURSE , 
SCIENCE TEXT ROOKS , 

THE VARIOUS THEOLOGICAL BOOKS. 

Full Assortment in Stock and Supplied at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books. Ac., Ac., 

B E8T VALUE I IV T O W iV . 

Stylo graphic Pens , Anti-Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty . 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

233 St. J ames Street, 

so 

Branch Store 1423 St. Catherine St. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 

Vol. XI.] McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, FEBRUARY 7th, 1888. [No. 7. 



Unibemtg dtajtttt. 

BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

Jeffrey H. Burland, B. Ap. Sc., F.C.S., President. 

C. W. Hoare, Med. ’88, Vice-President. 

J. F. Mackie, B.A., B.C.L., Sec.-Treas. 

A. Drummond, Science ’88. 

W. Dixon, B.A. 

C. F. Martin, Arts ’88. 

J. A. Elliott, Arts ’90. 

EDITORS. 

Raleigh J. Elliot, B.C.L., Editor-in-Chief. 

J. A. MacPhail, Arts ’88., Asst. Editor-in-Chief. 

C. L. Wheeler, B.A., Med. '89. 

A. P. Solandt, B.A. 

H. E. C. Mason, Arts ’88. 

W. J. Delaney, Med. ’89. 

M. W. Hopkins, Science ’88. 

Blanche B. Evans, '88, Corresponding Ed. for Ladies’ Dept. 

The University Gazette will be published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which 
rule no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

All communications may be addressed to the Editors, P. 0. 
Box 1290. 

We do not hold ourselves responsible for the opinions expressed 
by correspondents. 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE. 

Editorials 75-76 

Poetry 76-83 

Contributions 76-82 

McGill News 82-83 

Societies 83-84 

Sporting 84 

Personals 85 

College News 85 

Between the Lectures 85 



Editorials. 



THE STUDY OF HEBREW. 

A few years ago the study of this ancient language 
attracted little attention, and few students took up the 
prescribed course in Hebrew and cognate languages. 

But a change came ; the study of the English Bible 
was more systematically pursued, and there soon 
followed a revival of interest in the languages from 
which it was translated. 

Many colleges have lately given more attention to 
the study of Hebrew and other Eastern languages, and 



we, as loyal friends of McGill, ask if “ our college ” is 
to he left behind in this. 

We believe that the time has come when Hebrew 
should be placed, in our University, on the same foot- 
ing with Latin and Greek. 

Is there beauty of diction, and literary finish shown 
in Greek and Latin writings ? There also is in 
Hebrew. Is it important for a student to know some- 
thing of Grecian and Roman history? Much more 
important to know something of Hebrew history. 

Look at the state of the case at McGill. We have 
an endowed chair for the teaching of classics, a pro- 
fessor and an assistant professor, with two of the 
largest and finest class-rooms at their disposal. 

We do not say that this department is too well 
provided for, but we do say that, in proportion, the 
Hebrew department is not well enough provided for. 

Let any one wishing to see the true state of the 
case, climb the many stairs, and just under the roof 
he will find a small, ill-ventilated room, poorly lighted, 
the most unattractive class-room in the whole building. 
Perhaps he will have the good fortune to meet the 
genial and learned professor of this ancient language. 
Here, daily, he teaches as well as is possible, under the 
disadvantages noted above. Here, he daily meets with 
the students from the various affiliated theological 
colleges, those men who will soon occupy positions in 
our land as teachers of the religion found in the Bible. 
McGill has done much for the festive medical, much 
for the debating law student, much for the level head- 
ed engineer, but the serious, steady theologue has to 
be content with little. 

Far be it from us to say that the University is not 
doing all it can for the chair of Hebrew, but we want 
to see the chair endowed, and a better class-room 
provided. 

Some friend or friends of theological study and 
students, should endow this chair, this chair that is of 
such great benefit to the rising ministry of our land. 
Then our learned professor of Hebrew would be 
able to devote all his time to teaching at McGill, and 
the course in Hebrew might be made more compre- 
hensive, and we would not fall behind other colleges 
in the study of a language, in which we find the laws 
that form the basis of our laws, the truths that lie at 
the center of our civilization, the revelation from God 
to man. 



76 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



THE ARTS CONVERSAZIONE. 

This year a new departure is being made in the 
Arts Faculty. Instead of the annual dinner, a Conver- 
sazione will be held under the auspices of the Univer- 
sity. It is always a pity to see any institution 
connected with college life, which is of long standing 
and good in itself, go down ; but if the dinner can be 
merged into something better, the pity will seem less 
and besides, the new circumstances in which the Arts 
Faculty finds itself placed this year will be more fully 
met. Up till now, the distinction between the classes 
has been rightly and religiously kept, and we cannot 
see any harm if, on the eve of graduating, it is shown 
that they are bound by a common tie to their common 
mother. At present it is a new venture, and if it 
succeed, there is no reason why, in future years, the 
men of the Faculty should not have their dinner as 
usual, and a graduating Conversazione at the end of 
the session, corresponding to the commencement of 
American Colleges, and replacing the graduating 
dinner. 



AS OTHERS SEE US. 

We are glad to learn that the articles lately publish- 
ed in the Gazette, on Daniel Defoe, have met a 
cordial welcome, at the hands of a college professor in 
Alabama, U.S. They have been read to the class in 
English Literature, by the professor, not only as 
models of English Composition, but also as able criti- 
ques on the great agitator of a by-gone day. 



Poetry. 



IN THE WEIRD AND WAN NOVEMBER. 

In the weird and wan November, 

Neither dusk of night nor dawn. 

From my sleepless couch and restless 
By a force com pell ant drawn 
To the shadeless casement gleaming 
Leaden grey aeainst the gloom, 

And the outer darkness, turning 
From the silence of my room. 

White and cold the earth lay shrouded 
In her virgin robe of snow, 

Moon nor star its vigil keeping 
O'er her sleep with tender glow, 

But a misty solemn stillness 
In the silent circling air, 

Holding all the voiceless fervor 
Of a deep unuttered prayer. 

Bare of leaf and bloom the maple 
Shot herboughs like rigid arms. 

Taking ever in my fancy 
Strange fantastic, ghostly forms; 

And the houses, grim and formal, 

In the street's unbroken line, 

Barred and curtained, to my scanning 
Answered not with sound or sign. 

Only from one window glimmered 
On the night a pallid ray, 

Where, perchance, some lonely watcher 
Prayed and waited for the day. 

And far “ff ; I cannot see it 
For the gloom ; but in the West, 

Well I know the kingly beauty 
Of Mount Royal's pine-crowned crest. 



Thus I gazed, my soul demanding 
What should life yet hold for me 
Of the good or seeming evil, 

And beyond life's mystery. 

Then returning, pressed my pillow, 

Courting sleep, but vain the quest ; 

For beside me, in my bosom, 

Lay the angel of unrest. 

Psycologically solveless, 

Should I grasp the How and Why, 

Holden back from Science finger 
And her bright imperial eye. 

Unrevealed of Faith or Reason : 

What avail if I should cry 
Dumbly to the soulless midnight— 

Can it alter destiny ? 

As I lay, my senses quickened, 

To a night long vanished turned, 

And once more my heart within me 
O'er the page poetic burned. 

And my pulses throbbed and bounded 
With a shrill ecstatic, wild, 

O'er the doom of Connaught Moran 
And O’Connor’s hapless child.* 

And again I heard the night winds 
Mourning over Fion Gall, 

And the bride's long shriek of anguish 
• As she saw her hero fall. 

Saw her flee the house of horror 
For her buried warrior's tomb. 

And the “ Flow'r of love lies bleeding " 

From his dust in beauty bloom. 

Other fancies of the poets 
Long forgotten thronging came, 

Till the daylight broke reluctant, 

With its cold prosaic claim. 

In the street the din of traffic 
And the rush of hurrying feet. 

And within the household’s turmoil, 

For the vision pure and sweet. 

Yet not wholly lost, withholden 
Only from the coarser light, 

By my side I feel thee linger 
Lovely phantom of the night. 

Strong as surging billows breaking 
On Eternity's wild shore.! 

Fair as mists that from her headlands 
Softly roll when dark is o'er. 

And for all the gold of Ophir 
Not would I one pang forego, 

Of the poet's sacred rapture 
Grosser minds can never know. 

God I thank Thee for the anguish 
Of the birth-pang of the soul ; 

If the travail come with sorrow, 

Yet the joy shall make me whole. 

Erol Gervabe. 

* “O’Connor's Child," by Thomas Campbell. Author of The 
Pleasures of Hope, etc. 

t Cape Eternity. A rocky promontory on the Saguenay River, 
Prov. Quebec. 



Contributions. 



A COUNTRY BOY. 

[Written for the University Gazette.] 
By Nihil V. Erius. 



CHAPTER Y. — ( Continued .) 



Mr. Tilton remained silent, but was evidently 
struggling with some terrible thought. His face 
blanched, and the blood left his compressed lips, 
while his brows gathered above his eyes until they 
were shadowed. When first he spoke it was to him- 
self, and the listeners caught the words indistinctly. 
They were something about “ my brother,” and “ the 
memory of the dead ; ” but when next he spoke his 
voice was firm, though intensely sorrowful 



1888.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



77 



“ No, I’ll not deny that signature,” he said. “ ’Tis 
there, and I’ll stand by it; but”— and here his 
voice broke again — “ God help my family, the lass 
that played at my knee, * * * and— and the 

lass that faced the world with me, and bested it, till 
now. Oh ! brother, brother, did ye know what ye 
did when ye did me this evil ! ” 

“ ^ly son ! where is Bolton?” he broke out, turn- 
ing and facing the lawyers. “ Where is he that he 
leaves my shoulders to break under this burden ? ” 
There was no reply. No one could find it in his 
heart to add one jot to the old man’s sorrow, and tell 
him that Bolton was away carousing with some boon 
companions. 

Mr. Tilton would not turn from the subject. 

“ You, Forbes, where is my son? Why is he not 
here to face ruin with me ? ” 

Once more he lost control of himself, and shouted 
for the absent one in a way that sent a thrill of horror 
through his listeners. 

In the midst of this paroxysm Lizzie rushed into 
the room and clung to his arms. 

“Father, father,” she cried, “ will I not do instead 
of Bolton ? What is it you want of him ? ” 

Mr. Tilton sat down, trembling, in his chair, and 
drew his daughter to him, who knelt at his side as he 
stroked her glossy hair. 

“ Where is Bolton, lassie ? ” 

Lizzie’s face blanched. 

“ He is with Jim, father,” she answered, softly. 

“ Ah ! ” 

What a world of expression there was in that little 
word. It indicated full comprehension. The name 
of a companion is the fame of a man, and Jim’s name 
was sufficient warranty of Bolton’s condition. 

Peter stepped up to Mr. Till on — 

“ Bolton is not here,” he said, “ but I am soon to 
be your son. Let me take his place.” 

Such a look of love and gratitude as he got from 
Lizzie ! 

Mr. Forbes, who had been inclined to praise his 
act, deemed it most extravagantly paid, and said 
nothing. 

“ Ay, lad,” said Mr. Tilton, “ you will see that Liz. 
does not suffer, anyway, and as for her mother and 
me, we have little time left to suffer in. But come,” 
he added, turning towards the others, “ I have kept 
you gentlemen too long on a disagreeable task. What 
do you want me to do ? ” 

But why dwell upon the misery of an old man who 
has lost his all? Rest assured that he was not spared 
on account of his family or his age, and a few weeks 
after his property passed undei the hammer, and he 
and his were houseless, except we call a house the 
miserable hovel that was secured for the family out 
of the surplus from the sale of the farm after the debt 
was paid. 

Before this Peter had returned to college, for the 
examinations were at hand. Bolton had not returned 
when Peter left, and Mr. Forbes undertook the care 
of the family. 

Mr. Tilton had received a shock from which he 
could never recover, and every day grew more and 
more enfeebled in mind and body. Mrs. Tilton, like 



a true woman, set herself vigorously about to make 
the best of her circumstances ; and, assisted by Lizzie, 
actually introduced some comfort into the new home. 
Mr. Forbes made some of the most wonderful pur- 
chases ever made by man in the city. He bought — 
or said he bought — articles of food and attire for the 
family at what must have been ninety per cent, under 
their value. He was indefatigable, too, in endeavor- 
ing to lighten the burden of Mr. Tilton’s trial. Every 
night he would take his violin to the little cabin, and 
a fifty thousand dollar house in the city never rang 
to so sweet music as was heard through the open win- 
dows of the Tilton home — for the winter was passing 
into summer by this time, and the windows could be 
opened. 

Peter dropped into Prankville at rarer intervals. 
He was attending the summer session, he said, and 
could not well leave college. His manner towards 
Lizzie was as courteous as ever, but she thought she 
detected a rift within the lute, and sometimes wept, 
in his absence, at the change. When he did come to 
the village he was not so kindly received as he had 
formerly been. There was a hauteur about him that 
annoyed his old companions, and while he did not 
openly scorn their manners and customs, he no longer 
entered into the countrv amusements with the same 

t / 

zest as he had done of yore. On the whole, he was 
rapidly becoming citified. 

One thing surprised him. Mr. Forbes no longer 
interested himself in him. He never wrote to Peter 
now, and when the latter came to Prankville, Forbes 
no longer sought him out, but actually avoided him. 
When the two did chance to meet, Mr. Forbes was 
almost certain to advert in some way, and unfavor- 
ably, to the effect the city was having upon Peter. 
This was not so noticeable in company as in private, 
and never took place when Lizzie was present. As 
Peter’s visits that summer did not number more than 
half-a dozen, and as his stay was never over a week in 
length, there was little change caused by his visits. 
He was more thoughtful, and was inclined sometimes 
to get annoyed at Lizzie’s innocent country ways, 
until, at the end of the summer, the two felt that a 
barrier Lid arisen between them, one that as yet both 
heartily desired to have removed. 



CHAPTER YI. 



“ ’Tis well to be off with the old love 
Before you are ou with the new.” 



In the meantime, what had been going on where 
the two angels of day — Dusk and Dawn — dwelt? For 
part of the summer, of course, they had been out of 
town at one of the quiet watering-places in the neigh- 
borhood of the city. Ste. l>ose is well enough known 
now to need little description, but at the time of this 
story it was, indeed, terra incognita. Its hotels were 
— and still are — miserable, but Mrs. James,* like the 



* Erroneously printed “ Brown” in last number. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



78 



■wise woman she was always, took a house, and the 
family enjoyed all the comforts of a home. Mr. 
J ames and Charley came out every evening, and many 
weie the expeditions made, after an early tea, among 
the many islands that have gained for the stream its 
name — Thousand Island River. Not seldom Peter 
was one of the party, and under the influence of this 
aristocratic family he found himself cutting loose 
from his country manners, and despising those who 
clung to them. Even to visit Lizzie was, after seeing 
the “Twilight,” a disappointment for him some- 
times, and his visits, as has been said, grew fewer. 

It was a delicious evening in June when he paid 
his first visit to the country home of his friends. 
There was no long-lane, or shadow-nursing grove, to 
wander through, and no soft-eyed maiden met him 
at the well. But as there was a glamor over common- 
places a year since, so now there was an enchantment 
in the very air — an enchantment of which he did not 
yet fully realize the strength. Edith came running 
down the path to meet her father, her eyes sparkling 
with delight. She shook hands with Peter with in- 
difference, and turned again to her father, to whom 
she gave all her attention. Peter’s heart leapt when 
first he saw her, and her indifference, while it caused 
him a pang, could not entirely destroy his pleasure at 
the meeting. He thought of Lizzie, and compared 
her again with Edith, and the comparison was no 
longer so favorable for the country lassie. Yet he 
still loved Lizzie, or thought he did, but with this 
difference now — that she was no longer perfection in 
his eyes. When a savage has acknowledged that 
there is a God greater than his god, the missionary’s 
work is almost accomplished. 

In the evening Charley and Peter took the girls for 
a boat-ride. As they set out the sun was sinking, and 
every ripple among the reeds at the ends of the islands 
was a ring of ruby and gold. The party were in two 
boats — Peter and Edith in one, and Alice and Charley 
in the other — and the boats kept together for most of 
the time at first. I hey rowed far up the stream, and 
the moon was well up when they turned to row home. 
As they did so the girls began to sing, and Charley 
and Peter joined in, until the soft notes of the four 
voices filled the evening air with melody. Once 
more Peter was in a dangerous situation. Keenly 
alive to external influences, his spirit was ready to 
betray itself. His strokes grew languid, and the two 
boats drew apart, until an island intervened. 

“ Let us float,” said Edith, and Peter drew in the 
oars, and the boat slowly drifted down the silvery 
lane of moonbeams. 

“I never hear you talk now of Lizzie,” said Edith. 

“ She is well,” replied Peter. 

“ Do you know,” said his companion, “ I sometimes 
think that you were wrong to leave her, and go to 
college. You will never be the same again. Or you 
were wrong to tie yourself to a country girl when you 
knew your ambitions led you to the city and its life.” 

“ 1 am not tied to her,” said Peter, somewhat 
eagerly. 

“ ^ot actually ; but morally you are. And now 
that she is unhappy, you are doubly bound to her.” 

Peter was silent. He could not gainsay Edith’s 



[ 1888 . 



words. Indeed, by this time he regarded her as in- 
fallible, and would have believed her even against 
his own judgment. 

Still the boat floated on. 

(To be continued.) 

CHEIROSOPHY. 

No report of the proceedings in the Donalda De- 
partment of McGill would be complete, were we to 
pass over in silence the pursuit which has kindled the 
interest of Seniors and Freshmen, Juniors and Sopho- 
mores alike, during the past session. The barriers 
existing between Undergraduates and Occasionals 
have been likewise broken down, and between the 
lectures eager groups are found occupying the corners 
of the halls, not now, as formerly, engaged in discus- 
sing themes of varied import, but all alike intent 
upon a study which has never been inscribed in the 
calendar, and which seems a unique topic to occupy 
the sober minds of university students. 

It is on some such ground as this that our Editor 
has asked me to contribute an article, upon what is 
commonly called “Palmistry,” to these columns. In 
complying with her request, I know that I am enter- 
ing upon a subject difficult to handle, that meets with 
the disapproval of many as being a remnant of medi- 
seval superstition, fostered — as states the Dictionnaire 
du XIX' Stkcle" — by men whom we would call char- 
latans, were we not persuaded that they have been try- 
ing to make a foolish witticism, rather than been guilty 
of a shameful speculation.” 

And I also find that the field here opening before me 
has so many aspects, that I know not which to choose, 
nor how to treat it, when chosen, so that it may come 
within the limits of a short paper, such as this is in- 
tended to be. To trace the rise in perfection of the 
hand in proportion to the progressive ascent visible 
from the lower animals to man ; to dwell upon its phy- 
siology ; to point out its importance in every action of 
our daily life ; to show its intimate connection with 
our thoughts, and how it illustrates by gesture as con- 
stantly as the tongue by words, the feelings we wish 
to express ; to follow out the line of arrangement that 
has worked so strongly upon myself, (and I think I 
may add, upon several of the other students) as prov- 
ing that the hand in its general structure and peculiar 
markings, may be taken as characteristic of the indi- 
vidual — these are but a few of the many thoughts that 
suggest themselves almost instantaneously, on turning 
to treat of what Aristotle has termed “ the organ of 
organs.” 

But in spite of the prejudice (in all respect I so 
term it), held by the wisest of our day, I venture to 
obtrude this subject upon the attention of the readers 
of the Gazette, feeling that it is but the part of a jour- 
nal such as we hope ours aspires to be, to give the con- 
sideration due to a matter which is now, through the 
agency of several rather able men, being brought be- 
fore the public almost in the light of a science, not 
allowing it to be condemned unheard as superstitious 
folly, until something of the other side of the question 
has been shown to those about to form an opinion 
upon it. 



1888.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



79 



As to the difficulty in regard to limited space which 
presents itself, I will endeavour to avoid the possibi- 
lity of too long trespassing upon the available time of 
my readers, by passing over all the above mentioned 
points, only referring those interested to Heron Allen’s 
“ Manual of Cheirosophy,” and also to his charming 
little work, “Practical Cheirosophy,” which latter has 
been my chief authority in the very slight knowledge 
I have gained upon the subject, and will confine my- 
selt to the Divination of Character by the Practical 
Rules of Cheirosophy, a theme by which I think all, 
however prejudiced, must be irresistibly attracted, — 
tor are we not all desirious of solving those two most 
difficult problems that life presents, ourselves and each 
other 1 

The Science of Cheirosophy, then, as portrayed by 
Heron Allen, Capitaine D’Arpentigny, M. Desbarolles, 
and others, is a survival of the ancient Palmistry, or 
rather is an outcome of it, springing from it, as did 
Chemistry from Alchemy, Astronomy from Astrology, 
and Craniology from Metoposcopy. It divides itself 
naturally into two branches, one comparatively mod- 
ern, and the other dating far back among the distant 
centuries, these branches are Cheirognomy , dealing 
with the shape of the hand, and Cheiromancy , relating 
to the more minute shades of characters to be depicted, 
revealing past or present events, which, as causes may 
have effected changes in the mental life and, conse- 
quently , in the hand, and even foreshadowing the more 
immediate future whose originating impulses may be 
already working in the mind. This latter branch is 
dependent upon the lines making the palms, said to 
be there present before birth, and upon the slight 
elevations, technically termed monuts, generally ap- 
pearing directly beneath the fingers and thumb ; it re- 
quires more skill in interpretation than does Cheir- 
ognomy, but this latter may, perhaps, be considered 
more interesting, as being less liable to be worked 
upon by chance, and being supported by Heron Allen 
and his confreres with even stronger arguments thin 
is the more far-fetched and less reasonable Cheiro- 
mancy. 

That there is, between the hands of different peo- 
ple, a characteristic difference, few will deny. In the 
first great natural distinction between men, that of 
race, a strongly-marked contrast is at once noted in 
the hands of members of different nationalities. Take 
for example, the hand of the negro as compared with 
that of the Scotchman. Notice the size and shape, 
length of the fingers, etc., and the conclusion will soon 
be reached, that there are, here present, fewer points 
of resemblance than of contrast. Coming down now 
to sex, the same thing is noticeable. A man’s hand is 
always, or nearly always, easily to be distinguished 
from a woman’s (except in the effeminate character, 
where the hand likewise will be effeminate), not alone 
by its size, but by its texture, by its joints, by its less 
sensitive appearance — to use a somewhat indefinite 
term, and by many other features. That, between the 
hands of individuals, there is also much dissimilarity, 
anyone endowed with ordinary powers of perception 
will allow, while the more consideration one gives to 
this point, the more interesting and striking do these 
diversities become, until a careful observation teaches 



that no two hands, as no two minds, are cast in exact- 
ly the same mould. 

Hands have been arranged, according to the latest 
and best classification, in seven leading types, six of 
which are as follows : — Elementary, Spatulate, Conic, 
Square, Philosophic, and Pointed, cited in the order 
of their relative mental importance — the Elementary 
denoting the lowest grade of intelligence, and being 
seldom found in the pure state in latitudes such as 
ours, though some of its distinguishing characteristics 
often appear in combination with those of some other 
type, modifying the powers of the subject ; and the 
Pointed, or Psychic, implying the highest degree of 
idealism, impulsiveness, and one might almost add, of 
inspiration itself, so truly does an innate sense of right 
guide this impulsiveness to a good issue. 

The seventh class, the mixed or Hybrid Hand (an 
instance of which has been given above, in the state- 
ment that the Elementary often appears in combina- 
tion with other types) is more frequently met with 
than any of the others, being present generally in con- 
junction with a mind which has not a very strong de- 
gree of individuality, and therefore in the vast major- 
ity which makes up the average of mankind. It 
represents the union of the characteristics of any two 
or more of the leading types. And here it may be 




interesting to remark that among the many hands of 
this class that have come under notice among the col- 
lege students (of the Donalda Department), the pre- 
dominating mixture has been that of Spatulate (see 
Fig. I.), and Conic (see Fig. II.), the former giving 
conventionality, energy, self-reliance, and good work- 
ing ability, while the latter adds to these, artistic feel- 
ings and perceptions, love of the beautiful, enthusiasm 
and selfishness. The blending of the types here, as 
always, causes a modification of the qualities indicated, 
corresponding to the degree in which they are rela- 
tively associated ; the element of conventionality here 
especially lessening the strength of the artistic attri- 
butes of the Conic hand, which, when unmodified, 
often give evidence of a nature that elicits merited 
though generally unsought, admiration — unsought, 
when, as is often the case, the selfishness here inherent, 
is elevated into mere self-sufficiency. 

Of the kind of hand defined by Heron Allen as 



80 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



the cleverest that exists — square topped fingers, with 
large upper joints, a well-developed thumb and palm — 
two instances have been found among the lady under- 
graduates, the possessors of which have well proved 
the truth of cheirognomy, by having on all occasions 




shown themselves deserving of being ranked among 
the brightest of shining lights of the Donalda 
department. As has been already inferred, a pure 
type of hand always gives individuality. 

Beside the shape of the hand, Cheirognomy deals 
with many minor points, such as texture, size, etc. 
Thus, very white hands, seldom changing colour, are 
an unfailing sign of an unsympathetic and egotistical 
nature. Again, comparatively hard-handed people 
are active and energetic, preferring physical to mental 
labour ; hence they are generally inclined to be super- 
stitious, and are capable of lasting affection, friendship 
in its deepest sense, rather than of the more romantic 
and ideal passion known as love. 

Very long fingers betray a fondness for detail and 
a carefulness about trifles, frequently amounting to 
frivolity ; they sometimes also betray deceit and cow- 
ardice. Stout fingers, of course, denote the reverse of 
these qualities, as is also the case with soft as compared 
with hard hands. It is only the medium-sized hand 
that can comprehend both the mass and the details 
of a subject, and that is the surest indication of a 
well-balanced mind. 

Fingers showing a tendency to turn back, give 
cleverness, generosity, and inquisitiveness. This latter 
quality is also shown by the twisting of the fingers, so 
as to exhibit chinks between them, though, perhaps, 
it might be more aptly termed curiosity, and sometimes 
merely an excess of sympathy. Thickness at the base 
denotes luxury, often carried into sensuality. Sensitive- 
ness is shown by little fleshy protuberances on the 
finger tips, also, in many cases, by criss-crossing lines. 

“ Short, broad nails show fidgetiness and a med- 
dlesome disposition, criticism and pugnacity, a love of 
domination and control, and generally quickness of 
intellect and perspicuity. In a hand otherwise good, 
they denote merely a spirit of sarcasm and good- 
humored irony. Long nails, of course, give the re- 
verse of these qualities, but, when very long and 
curved, betray cruelty.” 



Fingers are either smooth or knotty — that is, they 
either have their joints highly developed, or they 
have not. Smooth, they give impulsiveness and tact, 
rather than practical common sense and good taste, 
which are the attributes of knotty fingers ; these lat- 
ter also always show a tendency to order and arrange- 
ment; if the upper joint be developed to a greater 
extent than the lower, this order applies to things 
mental ; if the lower alone, merely to things 
material. 

The thumb is worthy of special notice, being, from 
the cheirognomists’ point of view, the most important 
part of the hand. It is divided into three parts — the 
upper phalanx, of will ; the lower, of logic ; and the 
root, or monut of Venus. These are discussed at 
some length by Heron Allen in his “ Manual of 
Cheirosophy,” but space will not permit of anything 
more than the bare mention of them here. Suffice it 
to say, that a long, large thumb shows individuality 
and a good intellect. A short, the reverse. A clever 
hand must always have a good thumb, unless some 
other points are very specially developed. 

I seem to have said very little about Cheirognomy, 
but yet I must leave it to take a glance, if only a 
momentary one, at the second branch of Cheirosophy, 
that dealing with the markings of the palms. The 
three lines which are present in almost every hand, 




and which even the least experienced can discern, are 
the Line of Life, encircling the above-mentioned 
monut of Venus (A — A, Fig. Ill), the Line of the 
Head, beginning near that of Life, under the first 
finger, and stopping under the third (B — B, Fig. Ill), 
and Line of the Heart, extending from between the 
first and second fingers, right across the hand (C — C, 
Fig. III). The more clearly and fully these lines are 
defined and developed, the stronger will be the quali- 
ties ascribed to them. Thus, a long, well-coloured 
line of the heart shows depth of affection. Again, if 
the head line be long, straight, well-coloured and 
clear, it denotes good will-power and intellect ; but, 
if it be very thin and very long, these qualities become 
accentuated and exaggerated into treachery and 
avarice. Forked at the end, it is a sure sign of deceit. 
Other lines, as those of Fortune (D — D, Fig. Ill), 
Apollo (E— E, Fig. Ill), and Health (F — F, Fig. Ill)’ 



1888.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



81 



are not important in divination of character, but are 
much used in fortune-telling, with which at present 
we are not concerned. 

1 he monuts, of which a hare mention has already 
been made, require more skill in interpretation than 
do the lines. Their comparative development or non- 
development indicates certain qualities or the lack of 
them, according to the finger under which they should, 
or do occur. The difficuliy in interpreting arises from 
the fact, that often a mount will not be directly under 
one finger, but will be displaced towards the next, so 
uniting the attributes of the two. It is the part of the 
Cheiromancist to reconcile the opposing qualities, thus 
indicated, in such a manner as to arrive at a correct 
estimate of the character of the individual in question. 
And, indeed, all through Cheirosophy, as in Physiog- 
nomy and Phrenology, opposing characteristics and 
the extent to which they may modify each other, must 
be taken into account. 

Still, the power of forming a right estimate of one’s 
intimates, and of measuring people at their true 
worth, is one which more than merits the very slight 
trouble necessary to its acquirement, already, indeed, 
more than repaid by the interest accruing from the study 
from its very outset. But it is not only in judging 
the rest of mankind that Cheirosophy is valuable. 
More helpful far is it in its application to that par- 
ticular mind, which it is the peculiar duty of each one 
of us to keep in order ; I mean our own. If this 
science be founded on reason and can be proved to 
be in accordance with the laws of nature, we have 
here a talisman to reveal to us the strangeness, and to 
solve to us the riddles of our contradictory and most 
unmanageable selves. To know oneself is the first 
step towards bettering one’s self ; and here is a short 
cut to a knowledge, otherwise gained only through 
long experience. Here is the “ giftie ” given us, by 
which we may see ourselves as others see us. Here is 
the sign post pointing to the path in which kind 
nature meant us to excel, and by following which we 
can make the best use of the talents given us. 

Find out your faults, says Ruskin, as far as you are 
able to discern them, and then try to correct them — 
and in these words follows up the advice of the poet, 

“Yes, know thyself, in great concerns, in small, 

Be this thy care , for this, my friend, is all.” 

In closing, I would say as to the truth of cheirosophy, 
that I have neither time nor space here to put forward 
arguments in its favour, but that, as to myself and my 
own belief in it, so numerous and so striking have 
been my ex| eriences,as regards the agreement between 
the features of the hand, and those of the character of 
the subject, that it passes, to my mind, far beyond the 
limits of coincidence, and convinces me that even 
should the Physiologists be able clearly to demonstrate 
that Cheirosophy is an impossibility and an absurdity, 
I should still believe in it, only placing it then among 
those things which are as yet beyond explanation or 
comprehension, but which are, nevertheless, felt by 
us to be as true and as real as are the more visible and 
material objects surrounding us. 

Sophie More. 



BACON VS. SHAKESPEARE .—(Continued.) 

On examining the internal evidence of the Bacon- 
Shakespeare question, the careful enquirer finds a 
field still more unlimited and accessible than that 
which he encounters in external evidence. In the 
plays attributed to Shakespeare are found opinions 
in regard to science and philosophy, which Bacon 
alone, among all his contemporaries, was known to 
have promulgated ; thoughts, indeed, in advance of 
his time, on the most abstruse doctrines and scientific 
calculations, are found in the greatest copiousness 
throughout these plays. 

To elucidate, by means of a few examples, this 
coincidence of opinion and parallelism of expres- 
sion : — In his scientific works, Bacon mentions the 
theory that the sun is a mass of fire — a similar remark 
is found in “ Hamlet.” The idea that “ one heat 
another heat expels,” is to be found not only in 
Bacon’s scientific works, but also in several passages 
in the plays. 

The philosopher’s opposition to the academic system, 
his aversion to the adoption of French dress, to duel- 
ling, to the then almost universal habit of painting 
the face — all these, and countless other theories of a 
similar nature, find their expression in those plays 
attributed to Shakespeare. On further examining 
the plays, to elicit the legal knowledge of the author, 
we find the technicalities of the law courts men- 
tioned with the most suggestive exactness. The 
method with which the writer deals with descent-in- 
law, fines and recovery, land tenure, misprision for 
treason, etc., forms a powerful evidence in favor of 
Bacon, the young practitioner from Gray’s Inn. 

In order to indicate clearly the striking connection 
between the circumstances of Bacon’s life and the 
events recorded in the plays, it may be well to cite a 
few instances in which this is prominent: — In 1610 
a colonizing fleet, uuder Sir Walter Raleigh and 
others, set sail for Virginia, encountered severe storms, 
and was finally wrecked on the shores of the Bermuda 
Islands. Among those engaged in the enterprise was 
young Lord Bacon. A year after the occurrence the 
“ Tempest ” appeared, with its plot founded on the 
shipwreck, and with references in it concerning the 
“ Still vexed Bermoothes.” Further, about the time 
that Bacon was driven to Gray’s Inn to earn a living, 
his brother Anthony left for Italy. Francis became 
involved in heavy debts, was besieged by duns and 
brokers, and complains bitterly in one of his letters of 
a “ hard Jew,” whose continued impositions made 
Bacon’s life almost unbearable. Finally, however, 
through the generosity of his brother Anthony, who 
had now returned from Italy, his embarrassment was 
relieved. Soon after this event the “Merchant of 
Venice ” appeared, recounting the precise tale as given 
above, and relating I aeon’s personal experience with 
a Shylock and an Antonio. 

Thus have Baconians traced the philosopher’s life 
through many of the plays, showing, often with the 
most positive proof, the very apparent influence of 
Bacon’s fortunes on the production of the plays. 

In conclusion, it might not be amiss to make a 
passing notice of the Cipher Theory of Ignatius Don- 



82 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



nelly, concerning which the Baconians, however much 
they may rejoice at the result, yet, as Mrs. Potts 
remarks, “ they receive it merely as a gratifying con- 
firmation of a fact which has been by other means so 
fully established.” The folio of 1623 was published 
with the utmost care, and practically regardless of 
expense, so that any peculiarities on its pages could 
hardly have been due to the carelessness of the com- 
positors, the work having been delivered into the 
best hands. In spite of this fact, there appear in this 
volume many irregular pagings, superfluous bracket- 
ings, and meaningless italicizings. To detail in regard 
to this would be to deal with the ciphers, as many 
others have already done, in following Mr. Donnelly’s 
general plans. The result cannot be truly computed 
before the work is published, when we will, doubt- 
less, find the cipher theory in all its detail. What- 
ever the outcome of deciphering a secret historv may 
be, the Bacon-Shakespeare question remains un- 
changed. The cipher is unnecessary as a proof, 
though it might be a significant aid 

Says a strong advocate of the Baconian authorship : 
“ The mind that wrote the plays of ‘ Shakespeare’ 
was a mighty mind ; but it was broadened and deep- 
ened, nurtured and cultured, by the learning and 
experience of ages. These plays tell of more than 
mere genius ; they tell of earnest study, patient in- 
vestigation, of a genius that availed itself of all the 
concentrated resources ol time.” 

On examining into the circumstances of the great- 
est poets of England, we find that their rank and 
celebrity were obtained from no other sources than 
those of undisturbed meditation and vast experience. 
Yet no such argument can be adduced in favor of 
Shakespeare ! 



GLEANINGS. 



Sometime offences against good taste will be looked 
on as offences against good morals. Three such vio- 
lations are before the eyes of any one who walks 
through the College grounds. On the hill an at- 
tempt — creditable enough as such — has been made at 
a tower of Babel ; the out-buildings of a tenement- 
house have been projected against the east side, and 
in the grounds the gaunt poles and wires have ob- 
tained an entrance. 

* * 

* 

Our own Anthony Comstock has been in the 
Library. As a curious instance of that strange mental 
condition that has an eye only for nastiness, let one 
but notice how a fine series of engravings has been 
mutilated by some self-constituted Art critic. 

* * 

* 

It is a sad case, when one comes to think that 
there is no good extant, no art which is not false, and 
no literature which is not hollow — a condition com- 
mon enough in young people of some seriousness, 
whose complainings find vent under the heading of 
“ Our own Correspondent ” in some periodical that 
aims to be broad. We have our own Montreal Letters 
to the Week as a notable instance. 



Some weeks ago we gave some definitions of poetry. 
Here is a definition of a poet : — “ To be a poet is to 
have a soul so quick to discern, that no shade of 
quality escapes it, and so quick to feel, that discern- 
ment is but a hand playing with finely ordered variety 
on the chords of emotion, a soul in which knowledge 
passes instantaneously into feeling, and feeliug flashes 
back as a new organ of knowledge.” 

* * 

* 

“ During the last thirty years we have ceased to be 
English. Formerly, swindling was not our method 
in trade, nor was advertising a necessity.” These are 
some words of Kuskin’son the “ Present Discontent.” 
It has long been a question whether or not England 
would run her course, like other nations of equal pro- 
mise. These have left behind, at least, “ an undying 
name,” which will not be left to England if her light 
goes out under such circumstances as Ruskin indi- 
cates. 

* * 

* 

A Scotch writer discusses, with a show of reason, 
whether a thing can be believed which is not true any 
more than that can be eaten which is not food, and 
he urges, that to force upon one a belief which every 
faculty he possesses characterizes as false, is to make 
of faith not a loving thing, but a ruffian bullying the 
intelligence into receiving what it never can accept. 

* T 
* 

Wit takes of the nature of reasoning ; humor, when 
allied most closely with the sympathetic emotions, 
passes into poetry. Practical jokes often have humor, 
but it is not associated with sympathy. To a savage 
there is something humorous in the idea of “ boiling 
oil and melted lead.” Can it be that the tendency to 
the good and the beautiful is so great, that from so cruel 
a parentage could spring that strange combination of 
fun and philosophy, fancy and feeling, which consti- 
tute modern humor? Wit is sharp and cold, unless 
tempered by humor; and humor in itself, from its 
very exuberance, may become wearisome, unless toned 
down by wit, the enemy of all monotony and lengthi- 
ness. 



JFlc(BUl iSfeuis. 



Dr. MacDonnell has procured for the Dissecting 
Room a set of beautiful French models. 

The date of the Arts Conversazione is fixed for 
Monday, 6th February. Graduates are invited. 

In future, students in the Normal School will pursue 
the first two years of their course in the Arts Faculty. 

New seating has been provided for No. 1 class room. 
We think the old chairs have stood it remarkably well. 

A drinking font (?) has been placed in the main 
building, for the nourishment and refreshment of 
students. 

The Corporation at its last meeting granted the 
degree of LL.D. to Principal Anderson, Prince of 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



83 



1888 .] 



Wales College, Charlottetown, P. E. I., and to Chan- 
cellor Heneker, of Lennoxville. 

We never before realized how fearfully and wonder- 
fully the human frame is constructed, not even in our 
Anatomy exams., until we studied the illustrations 
appended to Cheirosophy. Surely Sophie More is 
wrong 1 or were they taken from life 1 

Saturday night the class in Mathematics held a 
seance in the observatory. Next year a special eclipse 
will be provided for the “ special course.” Ursus 
Major was unusually bright, and with exception of a 
certain amount of levity, indulged in under the cover 
of darkness, a very profitable evening was spent. 



FEATHERS FROM THE EAST WING. 



We regret that several typographical errors crept 
into Feathers from East Wing in last issue. 

In the Delta Sigma Society the programme of 
meetings is as follows : — 

Jan. 26. — Debate — “Dress Reform.” 

Feb. 2. — “ — “ Cremation.” 

“ 16 — Essays. 

March 1. — Debate. 

“ 11. — Essays. 

To the majority of our students, the avenue that 
leads up from the College gates, although undoubt- 
edly the coldest, is by no means the longest section 
of the daily route from home to the doors of the 
East Wing. It is true that when the last lecture is 
over, we stroll towards our respective dwellings in 
groups of twos or threes — school-girl fashion ; but 
there are many among us to whom a solitary twenty or 
thirty minutes’ walk is a necessity, at least once a day. 

Now, it is a fact, proved by experience, that our 
undergraduates, if faithful in the task they have 
undertaken, find little or no time for thought, apart 
from their studies. Their life is a round of “ lessons, 
lunch, and lectures,” not to speak of domestic and 
social duties, from which few are free. 

The question suggests itself — Cannot the mental 
leisure thus enforced be utilized, and devoted to the 
careful consideration of some subject, selected by each 
one according to her fancy 1 The very effort of train- 
ing the mind to think systematically would be of in- 
calculable value, in promoting a clear habit of expres- 
sion in conversation, or in examinations. 

The topics which might be suggested are unlimited. 
There are few students, if any, who have a better 
opportunity of observing “ Nature in all her loveli- 
ness” than those of McGill. The rich tints of early 
autumn; the weird, indescribable “atmosphere” of 
Indian summer ; the crystal-clad foliage and cloudless 
sky of winter ! — these alone would afford mental food 
for thousands. 

The world is full of wonderful and beautiful 
thoughts, and, withal, life is so short. Should we 
send a daily half-hour unaccounted for into the Great 
Forever 1 



IT’S NO GOOD TO CRY OVER SPILT MILK I” 

A peasant, of the true French breed. 

Was driving on a narrow road 
A cart, with but one sorry steed, 

And filled with onions, savoury load I 
Careless he trudged along before, 

Singing a Gascon roundelay— 

Hard by there ran a whimpering brook, 

The road ran shelving towards the brim, 

The spiteful wind advantage took, 

The wheel flies up, the onions swim— 

The peasant sees his favorite store 
At one rude blast all puffed away. 

IIow would an English clown have sworn, 

To hear them plump and see them roll, 

Have curs’d the hour that he was born, 

And for an onion risk’d his soul ! 

Our Frenchman acted quite as well ; 

He stopp’d— and hardly stopp’d— his song ; 

First raised his Bidet from his swoon. 

Then stood a little while to view 
His onions bobbing up and down ; 

At last he, shrugging, cried “ Parbleu, 

II ne manque ici que de sel, 

Pour faire de potage excellent.” 

Quevedo. 



Societies. 



The Undergraduates’ Literary Society held its usual 
meeting on Friday. After a generous and well- 
rendered programme, the question was discussed : 
“ Can arbitration be applied to all International dis- 
putes 1 ” Both sides were supported with character- 
istic energy, and it was decided that the method is 
quite applicable. Davidson’s speech and Truell’s 
criticism were the hits of the evening. The new con- 
stitution was submitted in part, and approved of. 

We regret the necessity of severely taking to task 
some of the members of our college Y.M.C.A. Fault 
is found that little or no news concerning the Y.M.C.A. 
appears in our columns. 

We answer, that frequent attempts have been made 
by us to obtain items, from the officers of the said 
society, but beyond promises to send news, no result 
has rewarded our efforts. 

To grumblers, all and sundry, we say, that our 
editorial labours are of such an onerous nature that 
we have no time to devote to the drudgery of reporting. 
So kindly collect and send in the news. 



COLLEGE Y. M. C. A. 

PROGRAMME OF SUNDAY AFTERNOON MEETINGS. 

Feb. 5. — “Temperance,” W. G. Stewart, B.A. 

“ 12. — “Reports of Delegates to Convention.” 

“ 19. — “Missions,” Rev. Dr. Barbour. 

“ 26. — “ Excuses ” (Luke 14, 8) D. J. Evans. 

You are Especially Invited to be Present. 

These are exclusively students’ meetings, and pre- 
sent a good chance for members of the different 
faculties to meet. Don’t wait for further invitation, 
but come; you are always welcome. Meetings on 
Sunday are held in the city Y. M. C. A. rooms, Vic- 
toria square, from 4.30 to 5.15 p.m., promptly. 

“ Come with us and we will do thee good.” 



84 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



McGill medical society. 

The fourth regular meeting of this Society was held 
on December 17th. In the absence of the President, 
the Vice-President, Mr. E. P. Berry, ’88, took the chair. 
The paper for the evening, “ General Paralysis of the 
Insane,” was read by Mr. Wetmore, ’88. Mr. Hub- 
hard exhibited a number of pathological specimens, 
and Mr. Hopkins reported an interesting case of 
Pyaemia. 

At the fifth meeting, held on Saturday, January 21st, 
there was a small attendance on account of the storm. 
Those, however, who defied the elements, were well 
rewarded by listening to a very interesting paper, 
entitled “ Some Antipyretics,” by Mr. J. A. Creasor, 
’89. Under this heading, Mr. Creasor discussed some 
of the latest additions to the Pharmacopoeia, which 
have not as yet found their way into the text books. 

The Pathologist exhibited specimens illustrative of 
Pneumonia in its different stages, and Mr. McDougall, 
’88, reported a case of Diphtheria bristling with com- 
plications. 

It was decided by a unanimous vote to put a list of 
the members of this Society in the Reading Room. 



Sporting. 



M.A.A.A. vs. McGILL. 



This, the second of the championship series in 
which McGill took a part, was played in the Crystal 
Rink, on Monday, the 23rd January. 

The teams were as follows : — 



M. A. A. A. 

Paton. 
Stewart. 
McNaughton. 
Virtue. 
Pindlay. 
Hodgson 
Lowe. 



Goal. 

Point. 

Cover Point. 

I 

>- Forwards. -I 



m’gill. 

J. S. Shanks. 

AY. J. Hamilton. 

R. N. Walsh. 

T. N. Walsh. 

M. F. Lucas, (Capt.) 
F. M. Fry. 

W. L. Jamieson. 



Referee, S. Stevenson ; Umpires, C. II. Macnutt and 
Robertson. The puck was faced at 8.30. Immediately 
after the face, Montreal made a quick rush on the 
college goal. It was nobly checked, however, by the 
college defence, and the play became very quick and 
exciting. After a desperate struggle, a successful shot 
landed the puck between the McGill flags. This 
game was the longest of the match and was character- 
ized by good hockey throughout. At the start of the 
second game, McGill rushed the puck up to the 
Montreal goal and made things rather lively there for 
a time. A few minutes afterwards, though, by a 
deliberate off-side, the Montrealers scored. Nothing 
further was taken up to half time. 

The second half McGill defended the South end of 
the rink, and did it well. The play this half was a 
little more one-sided than the first, but still a very 
bard and exciting one. Two goals were secured by 
the Montrealers, and time was then rightly up. The 
referee, however, apparently did not wish to see such 
an interesting match stopped, and did not call time 
till another goal was obtained by Montreal — the time 
having expired by about four minutes. Goals 5 to 0 
in favour of Montreal. 



Our boys played a really good game, and have im- 
proved very much since their match with the Vies. 
They deserve great praise for the able and gentlemanly 
way in which they played. It was their misfortune, 
not their fault, that eight men were pitted against them, 
instead of the usual seven. It was certainly strange 
that such deliberate off-sides, on the part of Montreal, 
were allowed to go overlooked. 

McGill’s defence was especially noticeable, and 
great praise must be given to Shanks for the able 
manner in which he defended his citadel; “Billy” 
Hamilton, as point, played an excellent game, notwith- 
standing the fact that it was his first skate since the 
winter of ’85-’86. He had the misfortune to lose one 
of his teeth. 

The two Walshs and Lucas played a very good 
game, the latter being especially noticeable. 

In conclusion, the wish may be expressed that 
McGill show as much improvement in their next 
match, as they have in this one. It would be well if 
our forwards followed up much faster and exhibited 
more team play. 



HOCKEY. 

FRESHMEN VS. SENIORS. 

The Victorias recently defeated McGill, in the 
Victoria Rink, by 8 goals to 1. The match was be- 
tween speed and science, on the one hand, and in- 
experience and “ hard luck,” but with an enormous 
amount of grit, on the other. 

The following is the team : — 

Shanks, goal ; R. N. Walsh, point ; Lucas, (capt.) 
cover-point; Fry, T. N. Walsh, Holden and Jamieson. 
Shanks played a most brilliant game in goal. R. N. 
Walsh did remarkably well, considering it was his 
first appearance as a player. Lucas did not exhibit 
that proficiency he attained last season, and seems to 
be in vei'y poor condition. Fry scored the only 
goal for McGill, while Holden seemed to have great 
difficulty in preserving an equilibrium. We would 
advise him, and in fact, all the team, to practice the 
art of skating. The forwards seemed to be all bunched 
together, and did not keep their places the way their 
opponents did, thus interfering with one another, and 
losing many an opportunity of an effective “ pass.” 
The checking was very poor, and, as regards team play, 
there was none. In fact, every thing points to want of 
proper practice. The Victoria team have swift for- 
wards, and a strong defence. Campbell, their point, 
seldom is brought to a stop, when once fairly started, 
until he has scored. McGill found this out after 
Campbell had placed four goals to his credit. Our 
boys, although losing heavily, played with lots of 
pluck. They have gained a whole season’s experience 
by this one match, and only need a little time and 
practice to be good players. 

Lately the city papers have been unjustly criticising 
the McGill Captain. They condemn his skating, 
when the fact of the case is that he is one of the fast- 
est amateurs in Montreal. We are sorry to see this 
mauling and rough handling of persons and things, 
when it is undeserved. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



85 



1888.] 



Personals. 



-^ r * U. E. Cameron has instituted a course in domes- 
tic surgery, for the W.C.T.U. 

Every student is glad to learn that Mr. Taylor will 
soon he back to his place in the library. 

Berwick, Med. ’90, has been called home by a sad 
bereavement. He has the sympathy of the Gazeite 
and his fellow-students. 

The Gazette has to congratulate MacArthur, Arts 
’87, upon his marriage. He has taken root in Granby, 
head of the high school and presumably of his home 
Arch., is the third of ’87. Heigho ! Next ! 

Rev. W. T. Currie, Arts ’85, is now a missionary in 
West Central Africa. Latest advices from him state 
that he is exploring, preaching, practising medicine, 
etc., etc. He reports that slavery is the greatest couise 
of the country. 

Mr. Walter H. Ferrier, who last spring graduated 
as B.A.Sc. in the mining course of McGill College, 
has recently been elected a Fellow of the Geological 
Society of London. Mr. Ferrier is at present con- 
tinuing his studies in mineralogy and petrography at 
Heidelberg, Germany, under Prof. Rosenbusch, who 
is generally regarded as the greatest of living petro- 
graphers. 



College Keuus. 



A gentleman who has been studying in Geneva, has 
kindly given us the following information concerning 
lady students in that city : — 

“ Lady students were admitted to the University of 
Geneva about eight years ago. Their numbers have 
increased marvellouslv of late, owing to the influx of 
foreigners who could not enjoy the same privileges at 
home. I here refer more particularly to the Russian 
and Polish students, the greater part of whom come 
from the middle or lower classes of society, many 
having had to leave their homes on account of politi- 
cal implications. The few Geneva ladies who still 
follow the course of studies at the University, look 
down with contempt on their foreign sisters. 

The young ladies work in common with the men, 
both in the Laboratories and Lecture Hall, owing to 
want of accomodation. This will, however, not long 
be the case, as the number of male students is sensibly 
falling off, owing to this extraordinary privilege 
accorded them, (strange to say) against the wishes of 
nearly all parties therein concerned. 

It is not an uncommon sight for a Russian student 
(female) to be found working away in the “ Anatomie” 
with a lighted cigarette in her mouth. They speak 
usually three or more languages besides their own, 
associate very seldom with other students, and are not 
nearly as neat in their personal appearance, as other 
foreign students, or as our own. 

On completion of their studies at Geneva, they 
usually find positions in the better French and German 



families. I cannot recall any one instance of these 
young ladies attaining any specially high position or 
otherwise of having made a name for themselves in 
the educated world.” 



Between the Lectures. 



We are glad to inform the ladies that the proof- 
reader of their department in our last issue, has, in 
conformity with their instructions, been slain. 

The practice of whiling away the time immediately 
preceding lectures in the medical faculty, by hurling 
rubbers about is extremely reprehensible. Several 
accidents have already occurred owing to the not 
overshocr aim of some of the marksmen 

The conversation in the reading room of the medical 
building during the lecture on Surgery is on an 
extremely low moral plane. The Committee must find 
more reading matter for the students than the London 
Illustrated News and that inexpressibly solemn journal, 
Punch. These perused, the recital of the galanteries of 
various gentlemen is all that remains to the fatigued 
readers. 

An obstreperous Irish lady made a good deal of 
trouble at the hospital the other day. She was osten- 
sibly waiting for some mythical visitor in the wards, 
and the efforts of Edward to eject her were met with 
a torrent of profane recrimination. Two stern French 
Canadian policemen finally induced her to accompany 
them to the central station, and the polyglot conversa- 
tion during the abduction afforded much amusement 
to the numerous students present. 

A gentleman who has been studying the calender 
of our excellent school of medicine, hands us the fol- 
lowing draft of a prospectus, which, he says, offers a 
more attractive programme of the daily routine. 

“ Lectures begin in the morning at nine o’clock and 
continue till noon. The roll is called on .Mondays 
only, so that men have plenty of leisure. By taking 
the route to the Hospital via University and Dorches- 
ter streets, men will have the opportunity of sampling 
an excellent variety of whiskey, furnished expressly 
for students by Ryanrock & Co. of Lachine. Clinics 
at the hospital go on from one till three. Here there 
are several commodious smoking-rooms and a club- 
room known as the Dispensary, where students can 
while away the time, mashing the invalid chippies. 
From four till six, lectures are resumed at the college, 
and students have an opportunity of visiting the largest 
poker-parlour on the Continent. In the evening, men 
can repair to the handsome and well-ventilated smok- 
ing-room, when they may dissect if they wish. 

[We wish to remark here, in case some idiot should 
take the above au serieux, that, while there are one or 
two men in the faculty that follow out this programme 
pretty religiously, the medical students of McGill are, 
as a whole, the most hard-working and respectable 
class of men in the city. — Ed. Between the Lec- 
tures.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



TUTORING. 



MR. W. B. T. MACAULAY, 

EDINBURGH UNIVERSITY AND HIGH SCHOOL, MONTREAL, 
:o: 

Students fitted for Matriculation into all Faculties of the 
University and for other Examinations. 

2237 ST. CATHERINE ST. 

SPARHAM ROOFING CEMENT. 

The only Cement that has stood the test for the past fourteen 
years. All others have proved failures. 

:o: 

CAMPBELL & CO., 

Sole -A.g-e23.ts for ^Zorrtresil a.r rd. T 7 " icirritsr- 

OFFICE, 309 ST. JAMES STREET. 

D. NIGHTINGALE, 

Manufacturer and Dealer in 

POOL AND BILLIARD TABLES, 

IVORY AND COMPOSITION BALLS, 

Tips, Chalk, Plain and Fancy Cues, Billiard Cloths, &c. 

Tables Altered, Repaired, Cut Down, &c. 

1742 Notre Dame Street, MONTREAL. 




===) BUFY YOUR 

Boots and Shoes, 

Rubbers, Overshoes and Moccasins 

— AT — 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

SHOE STORES. 

UP TOWN : QUEEN’S HALL BLOCK, 

2243 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 

Wm. Notman & Son, 



Special to the Doctors and Students ! 

THE UP-TOWN GENTS’ FINE FURNISHERS. 

Collars and Cuffs, Shirts and Drawers, 
White Shirts mode to order. 

SPECIAL TERMS TO Til E STUDENTS. 

A. P. GRAHAM & CO., 

2230 St. Catherine Street, - Opposite Queen's Hall, 




* * ****** ** * * * * ****** 

hotographers 



**vii ********* * * * * * * * * * 



Jfevu Beale of 'Prices this year 
for Biudenis. 

17 BLEURY STREET. 



The Mutual Life Insurance Co. 

OP ILTIETW YOBK 

ISSUES EVERY DESIRABLE FORM OF POLICY. 

Assets. ------ $115,000,000 

Surplus, ------ 16,000,000 

The MUTUAL of New York is the largest LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY in the world, with the best record, 

AGENTS WANTED IN UNREPRESENTED DISTRICTS. 

Stndents can improve their circumstances considerably by acting as Agents in tbeir own Localities during Vacation. 

FAYETTE BROWN, Gen . Manager . 

176S ISO TIRE DAME STREET, 



MONTREAL 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



E. & C. GURNEY & CO., 

3S5 387 St. r.A.xjx. Steeet, 1£ontee^l. 



STOVES, 

GRATES, 

RANGES, 

SCALES. 



GURNEY’S 



C elebruteo Hot Water HeItebs 



Cast Bundy Radiators. 



-4-Wholesale Manufacturers 4— 




Hot Air Furnaces 

FOR 

Coal or Wood. 



ALL GOODS GUARANTEED. 



Circulars on Application. 



385 & 387 

St. Paul Street, 

MONTREAL. 



Established 1839. 

Heimby 1 IE 3 . 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST, 

144 ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STREET, 

Montreal. 

The Dispensing of Physicians’ Prescriptions a Specialty. 
Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers sup- 
plied with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 

THE 

GEORGE BISHOP 
^ngr^aving ^ Jointing 
Company. 

169 & 167 ST. JAMES ST , MONTREAL. 

Invitations, Cards, Grests, programmes 
jKlonograms, &e., &e. 

IN THE LATEST STYLES. 

Doctors’ and Students’ Headquarters 

— FOR — 

rzsra ozmikmim, 

Spiller & Co.’s (London, E.) Du Khedive Extr* Fine 
CIGARETTES. 

Lowe & Co.’s THOMPSON PIPES and others. 

Largest and most Complete Stock of CANES in the City. VIRGINIA 
and TURKISH TOBACCOS. 

E, A. ©ERTH, 

2235 St. Catherine Street, Queen’s Block. 




-Hie PHOTOGRAPHY H h- 

For CABINET PHOTOS., go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For COMPOSITION OF GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For all kinds of PHOTOGRAPHY, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S, 

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleurjj Street. 

SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS 

~and~ chemical apparatus. 

S iGill $todk don^tkptly ot\ Skgd, Imported 
Difedt ffoir\ tl\e I<ekdin^ ^lanufkdtufe.fd 
of tl\e Wofld. 

AN INSPECTION INVITE®. 

LYMAN, SONS & CO., 

384 ST. PAUL STREET. 





UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 




254 St. James Street, and 15 St. Lawrence Main Street, MONTREAL 
and 73 Snails Street, OTTAWA. 



the genuine 

Oooie^’s Peiewd 
BAKING POWDER 

Is the BEST VALUE in the market, is made from 
tli o PUREST INGREDIENTS, gives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to the user, and should be pre- 
ferred by all careful housekeepers. Retailed 
everywhere. 



TELEPHONE No. 580. 




(LIMITED.) 




CHEAP BOOK, STATIONERY, 

AND 



2! , 21 ■> & 23 St. Antoine Street, MONTREAL. 

T. H. LOVE, Managing Director. 

Our Laundry having been Refitted with the Latest and Most Im- 
proved Machinery, we are now prepared to offer special i?iduceme?its to 

Families, Hotels, Steamships and Public Institutions, 

for the Washing and Finishing of Goods. Particular attention given to the 
Washing and Dressing of Goods for Shirt and Collar Manufacturers. 
Goods damaged by Water Cleaned and Re-finished to look equal to new. 
Lace and other Fine Work carefully Cleaned an i Finished. No Chem- 
icals Used and Goods less roughly handled than by the ordinary hard 
work. Special Contracts made, and Tenders f:>r work furnished on 
application. 

GOODS CALLED FOR AND DELIVERED FREE OF CHARGE. 



FANCY GOODS SHOP, 

MEDICAL BOOKS, 

Students’ Note Books, Dissecting Cases and Scalpels, 

(BY WEISS & SON,) 

CUEAP FOR PASH. 

Books procured to order from England & the United States 

816 SND 818 DORCHESTER ST., 




Corner ILzEcC-lll and DTotre Dame Streets, 

LARGEST STOCK IN CANADA OF 

READY-MADE CLOTHING, 

— CONSISTING OF— 

Overcoats, Soils, Boy's & Children's Clothing, Hats, Caps & Gentlemen's Furnishings, 

CUSTOM DEPARTMENT EQUAL TO ANY HOUSE IN THE CITY. STUDENTS USUAL DISCOUNT. 

ILv£a,il Ord.ers receive special a.tten.tioxi. 




