Vol. XIII 



No. 9 





136 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, Guerin & Greenshields, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, &c,, 

Chambers : Exchange Rank Building, 

1728 NOTRE DAME STREET, - - MONTREAL. 

J. N. Greenshields. Edmond Guerin, R, A. E- Greenshields. 

IjOBERTSON, FLEET k FALCONER, 

ADVOCATES, 

157 ST. CT -ARMIES STREET, 
MONTREAL. 

ATWATER & MACKIE, 

Advocates, Barristers, Commissioners, 4c., 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 St. James St., Montreal. 

CHAPLEAU, HALL, NICOLLS & BROWN, 

ADVOCATES, 



Antiseptic laterals, Bandages, Etc, 

MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 

W. A. DYER & CO., 

PlariKtilial & Millions Chills, 

14 & 16 Phillips Square, Cor. St. Catherine St.. 

MONTREAL. 

Bandages, Roller, Muslin, 

Bandages, Cotton, 

Bandages. Absorbent, 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze, 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, Assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent, 

Cotton Wool, Borated, 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated, 

Cotton wool, Sublimated. 
Drainage Tubes, Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent, 

Gauze, Borated, 

Gauze, Carbolized, 

Gauze, Eucalyptol. 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze, Naphthalin, 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill; Inhalers, Celluloid, 

Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached, 

Jute, Absorbent, 

Jute, Carbolized, 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels ; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes; 
Sponges, Antiseptic; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain; Sponges, 
Gamgee’s Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies*. 



HEADQUARTERS 

-FOR— 

Softool and College Text Booh ! 



Barristers, Commissioners, &c., 

14:7 St. James St., Montreal. 



Hon. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. 
JOHN S. HALL, Jr. 



ARMINE D. NICOLLS 
ALBERT. J BROWN. 






Fine Custom Tailors. 

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 



53 BEAVER HALL HILL. 



DRYSDALE’S 

232 ST. JAMES ST. 

MEDICAL WORKS, BOOKS USED /JV ART COURSE 
SCIEJYCE TEXT ROOKS 9 
THE VA R MOUS TR EO /, 041 MCA I ROOKS . 

Fiill Assortment in stock and Supplied at Rock Bottom Prices 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books, &c., Ac., 

1 ^ ^ ^ ST V A. L TJ E I N T O W JX , 

Stylo graphic Pens, Anti-Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty. 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

St. J ames Street, 

ALSO 

Branch Store 1423 St. Catherine St 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Vol. XIII.] McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, FEBRUARY 24th, 1890. [No. 9. 



®ntl)emtg dm^ctte. 



broken harmony that distinguished it from the time 
the large crowd filed into the dining hall and took 
their places, without confusion or error, until the 
strains of the National Anthem fittingly ended the 



BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

J. F. Mackie, B.A., B.C.L., President. 
C. A. Barnard, B.C.L., Sec.-Treas. 

F. G. Finley, M.D. 

J. A. Elliot, Arts ’90. 

Peers Davidson, Arts ’90. 

John Clark, Med. ’91. 

A. E. Shuttlewortii, Science ’90. 



EDITORS. 

J. A. MacPhail, B.A., Editor-in-Chief. 



Blanche B. Evans, B.A. 

S. W. Mack, Arts ’ 90 . 

E. H. Hamilton, B.A. Sc. 

D. B. Holden, 



F.W. Hibbard, B.A., Law ’91 

A. H. Hawkins, Science ’90. 
H. P. Yates, B A. 

B. A., Med. ’91. 



Maud Abbott, ’90, Editor for Ladies’ Department. 



The University Gazette is published weekly during the 
College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which rule 
no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

Published by The University Gazette Co., P. O. Box 
1290, Montreal, and printed by The Burland Lith. Co., 9 
Bleury Street. 



first University dinner. 

Of the material part of the dinner nothing more 
need be said than that in this respect the Windsor 
maintained its reputation for cuisine and service. Had 
it been possible, however, to have commenced the 
banquet more nearly at the time fixed, opportunity 
would have offered, with a somewhat long programme, 
for an interlude of promenade and conversation, or 
an extension of the post-prandial frolics of the con- 
vivial spirits that remained. There was nothing of 
overbearing solemnity, from the presence of the Uni- 
versity’s great men, or stiffness of manner, from the 
fact that the ladies were there. In respect of Chan- 
cellor, governors, and professors, their presence gave 
the occasion dignity, while their patriotic and earnest 
speeches were a pleasure and profit to all ; while, as 
for the ladies, the only regret we have heard is that 
there were not more of them. 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE. 

Editorials ------- 137-138 

Contributions - - 138-110 

McGill News 140-146 

College World 146 



Where the great object of such a gathering is, 
undoubtedly, to draw closer all the departments and 
features of the University, the success of the past 
dinner, and of all to come, must greatly depend upon 
how far this object has been attained. The present 
gathering brought a large number of graduates and 



It will be noticed that the present 
number contains a full account of the 
University Banquet, and for that rea- 
son the usual Departments of “ The 
Gazette” have been held in abeyance 
until next week. 



Editorials. 

THE UNIVERSITY BANQUET. 

There can be little or no doubt in the minds of 
any who were present at the University banquet, 
that it was in nearly all respects a complete success. 
There is great cause for congratulation at the un- 



undergraduates into more immediate and social con- 
tact with those who are concerned with the manage- 
ment of the University, who had been in it and with 
it during the time of its early struggles, had marked 
its advance, and themselves been contributors to the 
constant progress of McGill. In this there was profit 
to both, and the opportunity the undergraduates had 
of making known the status and feeling of their 
several Faculties to men who are in general eager to 
know more of those whom they rule and teach, was 
one which no other occasion could offer. Hitherto 
there have been two distinct lives in McGill, and the 
sole opportunity for undergraduate expression was 
when the solitary Valedictorian was expected to make 
the fun on the solemn occasions when classes are dis- 
persed and friendships broken up. 

It must, however, not be forgotten that pleasure is, 
perhaps, more than profit, an object of all dinners, 
and the University dinner is no exception to the 



138 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1890. 



rule. On this occasion all seemed to enjoy them- 
selves ; the large number present, the varied charac- 
ter of the gathering, the abundant opportunity to 
meet with one’s particular friends, and the pleasing 
and easy style of the speakers, made monotony almost 
impossible, while the music, far the best that has yet 
been heard at any of our gatherings, was of itself a 
great part of the success of the event. Many, per- 
haps, would have preferred the music to have been 
of a more lively nature ; the Glee Club will be better 
able to judge when the next occasion comes round. 

As to the speakers, we may hardly venture to criti- 
cise the efforts of the several notable men who were 
heard during the evening. Suffice it to say, Sir 
William Dawson has seldom done better, and the 
noble and eloquent words of Dean Trenholme must 
have roused a feeling of emulation in the heart of 
every undergraduate and younger graduate present. 
Judge Church, a governor of the University, in the 
ten or fifteen minutes he spoke, in well-chosen lan- 
guage and dignified expression, made the past and 
present of McGill interesting, almost to novelty, to 
those who heard him. Of our guests, Chief- Justice 
Johnson’s speech was characterized by its admirable 
expression and feeling reference to his friends in the 
University, which made him at home with those 
whom, he said, he was among, but, he regretted, not 
of. Principal Adams, of Lennoxville, was alone to 
speak of other Universities, almost without being 
notified ; he was equal to the occasion. Of the re- 
presentatives of the various Faculties, Arts secured 
in Mr. Peers Davidson a man who ably represented 
his Faculty, and spoke in a manner that did him and 
the entire undergraduate body credit. Mr. Shuttle- 
worth, for Science, was loyal, and while he elicited 
the cheers of his constituents by his manly expres- 
sions on behalf of his Faculty, said no more than 
won for him the respect and good-will of all who 
heard him. Mr. Evans, responding for Medicine, 
was earnest in expressing the hope his Faculty might 
yet unite with the others in making the future Uni- 
versity banquets complete, and give them that ele- 
ment which might make their success perfect. Need- 
less to say his wishes secured a hearty response from 
his audience. The representative from the new Faculty 
of Comparative Medicine was a welcomed speaker ; his 
invitation to the ladies was cordial, but his feeling of 
pride in the exploits of his Faculty in the base-ball 
field did not elicit much applause. McGill, evidently, 
has yet to cultivate the attractions of the diamond. 

In their first University Banquet, all connected 
with McGill have reason for feelings of congratulation 
and pride. The success of the first endeavour gives 



promise of great things to come, when experience 
will enable the few defects of the past to be remedied, 
and there will be, as we earnestly hope, a union of 
every element in the University in a determined effort 
to make the future banquets the great social event of 
each session — an event to be looked forward to, and 
when past to be remembered. 



At the same time that our banquet was being held 
with so much eclat, a terrible misfortune befell a sister 
University. Toronto’s noble University building is 
in ruins, and its destruction is a truly national loss. 
Though the property of a state that is capable and will- 
ing to rebuild, and already we hear of greater magnifi- 
cence in the erection to come, much has passed away 
that no money and no succession of ages to come will 
ever be able to replace. In the library and museum were 
treasures unique and invaluable, and, though not an 
old building, associations dear to the hearts of hun- 
dreds of graduates are gone. No new building, how- 
ever gorgeous or complete, will ever entirely replace 
the one in its ruins, and we must wait for time to 
gather around the College to be, the associations that 
will make its history, and to replete it with works of 
learning and treasures of science and art. Among 
the expressions of sympathy that are not wanting to 
Toronto in its calamity, ours will not be the last in 
its sincerity and depth. 



Contributions. 



ARTS BEHIND THE MOUNTAIN. 

Two months ago, through the kind effoi'ts of Mr. 
Botterell, membership tickets for the Athletic Club 
House were presented to the students of the various 
Faculties of McGill. It seemed as though the boys 
had considered That, which they obtained without 
eliort or expense on their own part, of insufficient 
value to be utilized. This idea would be entirely 
false, and it is due to those who had already made 
some move in the matter to have this apparent apathy 
explained. 

Almost immediately upon the receipt of the 
tickets, the 2nd year of the Arts’ Faculty adopted the 
idea ot a tramp to the Club House as the most prac- 
tical and pleasant method of showing their apprecia- 
tion of the kindness of those to whom the presenta- 
tion was due, and it was only owing to a heavy rain- 
fall on the night appointed that this fully-organized 
tramp fell through. 

I here was no time to arrange for another before 
the holidays, and so the boys remained quiescent. 

On Saturday, Feb. 8th, mainly through the efforts 
of the same year tue senior years, doubtless, being 
too fully occupied to take the affair in hand — the 



1890.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



139 



first annual Arts’ tramp became a fait accompli. The 
heavy snowfall, which had been going on for some 
twenty hours, did not seem in the least to diminish 
athletic ardour, for at the appointed hour, 5 15, about 
40 men assembled at the gates with banner and song, 
especially song. Starting from there, some in shoes 
and some without, away the trampers went at a rapid 
pace, bound for the back of the mountain. H. 
Jaquays, ’92, led the way on shoes. Past Dr. John- 
ston’s, where a pause was made of sufficient duration 
to cheer the Dean, up Cote desNeiges at a rate which 
seemed to tell on the entire band, especially on those 
who were destitute of snow-shoes, and found the 
deep snow rather in the way of their feet. Woe to 
the leader of these guardians if the “dangerous rear” 
had once overhauled him, but to do this they had 
neither speed nor wind. In less than an hour after 
the departure from the College portals, the boys had 
gathered in the Club House porch, and forming up, 
enquired in a voice of thundering unanimity — 
“ What’s the matter with old McGill 1 ” 

Warm as they were from their quick march, the 
boys did not seem at all oppressed by the glowing 
coals that illumined the immense fire-place and ca^t 
a cheerful glow over the surrounding scene. 

Coats and shoes were quickly doffed, and while 
our hungry trampers were awaiting the call to supper, 
Mr. Botterell made his appearance, and was duly 
presented to the “intelligent assembly” as “Our 
guest.” 

Seven o’clock was drawing near when A. R. Hall, 
President of the Faculty, took the lead to the festal 
board. What a supper ! Medicine had advised 
future tramps (1) to have a menu submitted for ap- 
proval, and here, dish by dish, the menu was submit 
ted, and met with hearty and practical approval. The 
way the soup disappeared was a caution, and as some 
one facetiously observed, the boys seemed to be train- 
ing for the approaching University Banquet. With 
many gay stories and much bright repartee the heavier 
part of the meal was disposed of, and the table 
quickly cleared of its load of cold turkey, beef, and 
ham. 

Amidst ringing cheers, Hall rose at the head of the 
table to propose the time-honored toast of “ Her 
Majesty’s” health. “The Faculty” followed, pro- 
posed by G. MacDougall, ’91, in an easy and pleasant 
manner, which is peculiarly his own. Hall, '90, 
responded, urging a closer union of the several years, 
the want of which Mr. MacDougall lamented. 

S. Carmichael, ’92, “as an Irishman should,” called 
on the company to drink to the “ Directors and 
Advisory Board of the Club House.” In answer to 
this, Mr. Botterell gave a short and interesting sketch 
of the building’s existence, pointing out its advant- 
ages to young men in general, and to students in 
particular. 

Donahue, ’93, having failed to appear, Davey, ’92, 
was called upon to propose the “Class of ’90.” In 
his few but telling remarks, Mr. Davey showed his 
ability for extemporaneous speaking. S. W. Mack, ’90, 
answered on behalf of his year with his usual elo- 
quence. He called the attention of the students to 
College institutions, especially the Literary Society 



and Tiie Gazette. Upon his resuming his seat, J. 
Taylor, ’92, offered as a subject for toasting, “ The 
Freshies” — “the children of the College, yet men and 
gentlemen, every one of them.” Mansur and White, 
both in this state of apparent greenness, though they 
see it not themselves, spoke on behalf of that influ- 
ential body, showing forth their victories in the field 
of war. 

W. Kollmyer, ’92, introduced the toast of “ Our 
Guest.” Once more the water-glasses tinkled to-* 
gether, and once more the well-worn words, “ For 
he’s a jolly good fellow,” stood in good stead. Mr. 
Botterell thanked the students for the reception they 
had given him, closing his remarks by some good 
advice to the Freshmen, to the effect that they should 
show their superiority in the William Molson Hall. 
But when did Freshies ever receive good advice, least 
of all of this nature 1 

No individual rose to toast “ Our College,” but 
with, undoubtedly, intense feeling and sensibly 
intense voices, the entire gathering joined in “Another 
health before we part — the health of old McGill, 
boys.” 

In a wonderfully short time the table was cleared 
away, the curtains drawn, and the large dining-hall 
ready for action. 

Hall, ’90, opened the programme by rendering, in 
fine style, “ The Boatswain.” 

Roller skates had been brought out, and an open 
race on these animated contrivances occupied the 
attention of the onlookers. Three laps were to decide 
the event, and it was astonishing to see how often 
one gentleman examined the floor in this short dis- 
tance. Won by Pritchard, ’92. 

Immediately after this followed the most exciting 
item in the evening’s programme — the Church vs. the 
World. Six stout Theologs. declared they would 
pull any six picked men ; they said it, and what’s 
more, after two minutes’ hard pulling, they did it, 
with 1^ ft. to spare. 

Next came a three-legged race in three heats, the 
honors of which were carried off, amid much laughter 
and excitement, by Carmichael and Williams, ’92. 

J. Anderson enter ained the lads with selections 
on the mouth organ, and was immediately pressed 
into service to play for a cotillion. 

In this set the ladies, who were distinguished by 
having their arms draped in white, seemed to have 
lost all decorum and sense of propriety, and so shocked 
their partners that these, too, seemed affected. 

Macdougall, ’91, led the boys off in several College 
songs and choruses, making the old room ring again. 
So the fun went on. Noisy, but who cared 1 ? 

All evening a quieter group had been gathered 
around the billiard-tables outside, one man retiring 
only to have his place filled by another. The click- 
ing of the ivory as the red and white spheres went 
rolling over the green filled up the intervals, if such 
there were, in the hubbub going on in the adjacent 
room. 

At 10.45 the bugle sounded, and everything had to 
be dropped. Reluctantly a retreat was made to the 
cloak-room, snow-shoes were tied on, and a start made 
for home. Not quite so quickly as when pursuing 



140 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1890. 



the same route some five hours’ earlier, hut just as 
cheerily and noisily, the boys descended the hill. 
Now a turn to the left. “ Where are we going!” 
“ Dunno.” Blindly the leader is followed in perfect 
faith, and in a few minutes Trafalgar Institute looms 
up ahead. With many loudly expressed wishes for 
“ Sweet dreams, ladies,” which would have aroused 
Satan’s imps, let alone angels, the tramp once more is 
set in motion. Down to Dr. Murray’s they go, and here 
again the students’ National Anthem, “ For he’s, etc.,” 
breaks the silence of the midnight air. In response 
to a kind invitation on the part of Mrs. Murray, the 
boys entered and entertained (!) their host and hostess 
with some choice and particularly novel selections. 
I his formed a fitting close for the evening’s sport, 
and homeward the trampers wended their way in 
groups of half-a-dozen, each of which seemed to hold 
noise at a premium. By Sunday morning the last 
straggler was safe in his den, better physically and 
mentally lor his healthful recreation. 

* * * 

Disappointment was felt by some members of the 
senior years that, owing to coincidence with previous 
engagements, they could not attend the Faculty tramp, 
lo these, and to others, also, who wilfully absented 
themselves on Saturday, it will be comforting to know 
that, from the general tone of the remarks let fall on 
that occasion, there is every probability of the occur- 
rence being repeated before the close of the session. 

I hat all were satisfied with their reception and 
entertainment at the Club House was evinced by the 
prolonged cheers which greeted Mr. Pratt as he passed 
the trampers, homeward bound. 

A Sopht. 



BIciBill News. 



THE UNIVERSITY DINNER. 

The first University Dinner of McGill, held in the 
large dining room of the Windsor Hotel, judging 
from the universal words of approval and praise 
heard on all sides, may be considered all in all to 
have been so unqualified a success as to mark, pos- 
sibly, the dawn of a new social era in the life of old 
McGill. Including those in the gallery, nearly 400 
were present, of whom ladies connected with the 
University formed no inconsiderable part, and lent 
the gathering such grace and dignity as will make 
their presence indispensable at all such reunions in 
the future. 

Our generous benefactor and Chancellor, Sir 
Donald Smith, presided, and on either side of him 
were seated the guests of the evening and a long line 
of ladies and men, distinguished for their zeal on 
behalf of the University and noted iu its records for 
their beneficence or for their untiring energy in the 
\voik of its faculties. Among them we may mention 
° lr . ''illiam Dawson, Sir Joseph Hickso.:, Hon. 
Chief Justice Johnson, Hon. Judges Church and 
\\ urtele, Principal Adams, J. H. R. Molson, E. B 
Greenslnelds, Vice-Principal Johnson, Deans Craik 



Trenholme and McEachran, and among the ladies 
were Lady Smith, Lady Dawsou, Lady Hickson, Mrs. 
Molson and Mrs. Greenshields, and in the body of 
the hall were nearly all the professors of the several 
faculties and a large number of distinguished gradu- 
ates, many of whose wives, with the lady graduates 
and undergraduates of the Donalda Department, in 
brightly coloured costumes, lent a joy and brilliancy 
to the gathering in all parts of the hall. 

After that part of the programme, provided by 
mine host of the Windsor had been disposed of, the 
chairman proposed the usual loyal toasts, which were 
received in a manner that showed McGill is by no 
means the least loyal of our Canadian institutions. Sir 
William Dawson then proposed “The University,” 
laying special stress on the victory that has lately 
been achieved in the cause of higher education in the 
passing of the B.A. Bill. While paying an eloquent 
tribute to the Hon. Justice Lynch, Hon F. E. Gilman, 
J. S. Hall, M. P. P. and other friends of both nation- 
alities, whose good will and zeal had brought about the 
success of this measure, Mr. Hall having just arrived 
from Quebec, entered the room and was received with 
an ovation which showed that the members of the Uni- 
versity were ready to recognize the value of his efforts 
on behalf of the bill. 

The first toast the gathering was called upon to 
toast Avas “ The Queen.” The Chancellor, in toasting 
the Governor-General, the visitor of the University, 
said His Excellency had regretted not being able to 
be present owing to press of business, but that he had 
promised to be present at the convocation. “ The 
University ” Avas also proposed by the chairman, Avho, 
in that connection, referred t .• the fact that hitherto 
the different faculties have had their dinners separate- 
ly, but the thought struck some of those interested to 
have a dinner in which the Avhole University Avould 
be included. It is thus that for the first time 
the professors, graduates and undergraduates are 
gathered. The idea was a happy one, and most 
admirably carried out. He hoped that it would thus be 
annually carried out f r many years to come. While 
the present one may not be up to the standard of 
perfection, the dinners will go on improving vear by 
year, until there shall be nothing desired in McGill 
Lni\ ersity s annual dinner. He said there are many 
gentlemen of high standing — legislators, judges, — men 
high iu the rank of literature and art, Avho, though not 
of the University, are desirous of promoting its 
interests at all times. Reference to the passing of 
the B. A. Bill Avas loudly applauded. In referring to 
the responder to the toast, lie asked who could speak 
so well for the University as Sir William DaAvson, 
as one avIio has done so much for it in the last thirty 
years ! J 

Sir William Dawson, Avho rose to respond to this 
toast, Avas greeted Avitli a tremendous burst of ap- 
plause. He said that he had been many times called 
on to respond to this time-honoured toast, but never 
on an occasion like the present, Avhen the Avhole 
university, ladies as Avellas gentlemen, had assembled 
in festive mood. I he ladies had become a very im- 
portant and increasing element in the university 
Ihey had always been among its best benefactresses 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE, 



141 



1890.] 



and friends, and now, though we may not think it 
meet for women to wrestle with men in the dusty 
arena of the struggle for existence, we are enabled 
freely to recognize their right to the highest kinds of 
culture and to all the social life of the university. 
The present gathering leads us also to see how com- 
pletely the different departments of the university in 
all its faculties, and from the chancellor to the junior 
undergraduate, are united in one great work. In its 
different faculties the university provides, as the 
universitas literarum, for all liberal culture, but those 
who are being trained for different professions are not 
the less its children, nor the less relations and friends 
of one another. We see here also that insensible 
gradation which leads up from the embyronic junior 
student to the fully developed and senior graduate, 
and how impossible it is to draw a line of separation 
between students and graduates. To us, the older 
members of the university, those graduates who 
appear here as reverend divines, learned deans of 
faculties, judges and legislators, college professors and 
eminent professional men, are the students of yester- 
day, and you the students of to-day are the leading 
men and women of to-morrow. So we hail you as 
the prospective victors in the battle of life, the univer- 
sity of the future ; and more than this, the heads of 
society in the coming time. I may congratulate you 
also on entering into life under better auspices than 
your seniors. The means and appliances of study 
are being improved. Learning is becoming more valu- 
ed and respected, and disabilities are being removed. 
A step in this direction is our at length successful 
struggle for the recognition of the B. A. degree, in 
which graduates of our university, Judge Lynch, Mr. 
Hall and Dr. Gilman have distinguished themselves, 
and Mr. Hall deserves especial and grateful mention. 
I regard this as not merely an educational but a moral 
triumph, not for us merely, but for the whole 
province of Quebec, and especially for its more 
capable and ambitious young men who desire the best 
preparation for the work of life. It is especially 
noteworthy that our cause has been sustained in the 
Legislature by the ablest and best men of both politi- 
cal parties, of both races and of both creeds. This is 
a guarantee that the benefit sought is not partial or 
invidious, but for the good of all, and it is an hon- 
ourable evidence of the fact that when great public 
and educational interests are concerned, the leading 
men of this province have the magnanimity to sink 
the party differences which may divide them. It is 
an illustration to our young men that there are 
higher political considerations than those of party, 
higher public interests than those of race, and higher 
religious objects than those of mere creed. In this 
matter our province of Quebec has at length shown a 
good example and has earned for itself a good degree 
among the peoples of the world. And now permit 
me to be prophetic. I believe that the recognition of 
the B.A. is the beginning of a new educational era. 
It will induce many of our young men to devote 
some additional years to preparatory culture for pro- 
fessional life. It will thus tend to raise still higher 
the standard of the professions, and to introduce the 
time when our young barristers and physicians will 



pride themselves on their academic culture and 
success, will be friends of liberal education, and will 
go on to take their higher degrees in arts, so that 
whether at home or abroad they will be recognized as 
men of academical standing as well as of professional 
eminence. This is what you are to see in the good 
time coming. We, the older members of the univer- 
sity, have had to work under less favorable condi- 
tions, and must pass away before these and other 
advantages resulting from recent improvements shall 
have been realized. But we are not disposed on this 
account to appear before you with the mournful cry 
of the old Roman gladiators — moritun salutamus — but 
rather with the exulting shout of another gladiator in a 
nobler arena, we would say we have fought the good, 
fight, we are finishing our course, we wait for the 
victor’s crown. To you, the younger members of the 
University, it remains, with God’s helping, to achieve 
still greater triumphs. 

After the rounds of applause which greeted Sir 
William’s speech had subsided, the Glee Club sang 
“ A Health to Old McGill ” 

“ The lights around the festal board 
On glass and silver quiver ; 

The generous wine is freely poured, 

The toast awaits the giver : 

So here’s a health to old McGill 
With feelings proud and tender, 

Let each a brimming bumper fill 
And loving homage render. 

Chorus. 

Another toast before we part, 

Another bumper fill boys ; 

A toast that comes from every heart, 

A health to old McGill boys.” 

Mr. Trenholme, Q.C., Dean of the Faculty of Law, 
then proposed the toast of “The Undergraduates,” as 
follows : — 

Mr. Chancellor: Ladies and Gentlemen,- -the toast 
which I rise to propose, to the undergraduates of Mc- 
Gill, is a toast, which I am sure, we all agree is of a 
most comprehensive and interesting character, for it 
includes not only the students of the three old 
faculties, of Law, Medicine and Arts, but also the 
students in the new and prosperous faculties of Ap- 
plied Science and Comparative Medicine, and above 
all, students of that full one-half of humanity, the 
ladies, heretofore excluded from our halls, but now 
representing the Donalda Department, and doubling 
by themselves or their attractions the number of 
students in Arts within the past five years. It is 
impossible to express the thoughts that arise from the 
contemplation of the future possibilities and certain- 
ties connected with such a large body of the choice 
and ardent youth of our country of both sexes, and 
as for their importance that is manifest from the fact 
that they constitute the element for which professors, 
endowments, museums and all else exist. 

Let me in the first place congratulate all connected 
with the University, on the great triumph just 
achieved for higher education in this Province by 
the passage of the B. A Bill, at Quebec, and which 
was ably promoted and carried through by Mr. Hall, 
M.P.P., one of our own graduates, in the Legislative 



142 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



1890.] 



Assembly, and by the Hon. Mr. Gilman, another oj 
our graduates, in the Legislative Council. I think we 
should here specially express our thanks to the French 
Canadian gentlemen, and among them to Mr. Robi- 
doux, M.P.P., and Mr. Lareau, M.P.P., for their 
earnest and eloquent support of the measure, this 
year and last, in face of the fact that an overwhelm- 
ing majority of their fellow-countrymen were opposed 
to the Bill. Let us do honor to the men who ex- 
hibited such moral courage and gave such generous 
and effective aid. The act does honor to the entire 
legislature and will not be readily forgotten. It is 
in order also to congratulate you, undergraduates, on 
the great advantages you now here possess for im- 
proving the golden opportunities of youth, compared 
with those enjoyed by undergraduates in my day, 
twenty-five or thirty years ago. Then the Faculty 
of Aris was practically without any library, except 
possibly as many books as would load an ordinary 
wheel-barrow : now you have a fine library of thirty 
thousand volumes, and daily increasing at a rapid 
rate. You have also the magnificent Eedpath Mus- 
eum, which then had no existence, and you have ap- 
paratus .and appliances of every kind which were 
unknown to former undergraduates. Above all, 
I congratulate the Faculty of Arts in opening its doors 
to ladies ; and the ladies of Montreal by their gener- 
ous gifts to McGill certainly acquired the right to 
have their sex admitted into the University, so that 
the sisters of our young men might enjoy the same 
educational advantages here as their brothers. There is 
nothing, however, on which you undergraduates in Arts 
are to be more congratulated, or for which we all 
should be more thankful, than the large number of 
the old stall of the Fac dty of Arts that are still with 
us. I refer to our revered Principal and the Dean of 
the I acuity of Arts, the senior professor of Classics 
and the Professor of French : may they long be 
spared in health and vigour to guide and direct your 
studies. It is the more gratifying when we think of the 
terrible harvest of noble and devoted friends of the 
University which the great reaper has gathered from 
among us during the past twenty-five years, among 
the governors, the deans and professors of our facul- 
ties and the officers of the University. 

Among the advantages which you undergraduates 
here enjoy there is no better educator than the history 
of your own University, of the devotion, the efforts and 
the self-sacrifice and the generous open-handed liberal- 
ity of the men, and women too, who have made McGill 
the great Institution she is to-day. Let us learn the 
history of their efforts and never forget to honor and 
feel gratitude to those who have done so much for 
us and their country. To have built up such an In- 
stitution without state or public aid of any kind, by 
the private efforts and liberality of the citizens of 
Montreal, is among the most honorable incidents in 
the history of Canada. Let me now say to the under- 
graduates that we entertain great hopes of your future. 
We hope that hereafter, at iiiture University dinners, 
it will be said that among you many have been found 
who, as scientific inquirers and discoverers, have ex- 
tended the bounds of human knowledge ; many who 
have notably applied such knowledge to the develop- 



ment of the resources and civilization of the country ; 
many who have enriched the literature of our 
young nationality with works of lasting merit. It is 
our hope that all this may be said of you ; but be 
that as it may, we are certain that from your ranks 
must come our future teachers and professors, our 
future professional men, judges, legislators and 
statesmen ! it is certain that on you must devolve the 
rightful discharge of all these. You are to be congra- 
tulated on the field open before you for the exercise 
of your talents and training in this young country 
just bursting into new national life. You may not 
all be successful as success is commonly counted, but 
you can all do better, you can merit success and at- 
tain to that higher success which comes from earnest 
and honest manly and womanly effort. 

This brings me, Mr. Chancellor, to my toast, and I 
invite you all to drink to the health of the under- 
graduates of McGill University, and when their 
undergraduate days are past, wherever one of them is 
to be found, there may there be found one fully 
equipped for the work of life, considerate of others, 
yet unfaltering in the right, and if a lady graduate, 
superadded to these, there may there be in a special 
degree a centre of that elevating, refining and benign 
influence which it is the mission of woman to exercise 
on earth. 

To this toast Mr. Peers Davidson responded for 
Arts, as follows: — 

Mr. Chancellor, Ladies and Gentlemen, — I greatly 
regret that my fellow-student, chosen to reply for the 
Faculty of Arts this evening, is unable to do so. I 
sympathise with him in his illness, with you in mis- 
sing an eloquent address, and with both you and 
myself in my incompetency to fill the breach. It is 
a pleasing duty on my part to assert that the Faculty 
of Arts is the keystone of the University. Let us 
hope that the representatives about to follow me will 
not consider it a necessity, a mere matter of duty, to 
make like assertions in regard to their faculties. 
You will, no doubt, be told this evening either that 
the study of musty law books acts like a balm upon 
the soul, or that the investigation of the human an- 
atomy is a task of a most interesting and enlighten- 
ing character, or even that the “ summum bonum" is 
to be attained by tramping through bogs and morasses 
with a heavy surveying instrument over the shoulder. 

I hese may be all very well in their way, but in our 
Faculty is found that culture necessary for the per- 
fect pra dice of all professions. It gives a basis upon 
which to found further work, and places within a 
man’s power the means of approaching that perfect 
knowledge which is the recognition of the vastness 
of God’s universe. Some of our subjects of study 
may seemingly be of little practical value to us in 
alter life; nevertheless, they leave their intellectual 
mark behind them, and in some way or other tend to 
aid men in battling with the difficulties of life. He 
would indeed be a sorry lawyer who had not some 
knowledge of Latin, Philosophy, Logic and the prin- 
ciples of Rhetoric ; the physician would be almost 
powerless without his chemistry; while it may be 
said that mathematics lie at the very threshold of an 
engineer’s training. Ladies and gentlemen, the learn- 



1890.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



143 



ing of an ideal Arts man is simply prodigious. He 
can converse with you fluently in French or German; 
toy with Greek and Latin idioms ; confound you in 
discussioi.s on the abstract questions of Ontology and 
the moral life ; confuse you in his references to such 
of his favorites as Schlegel, Schopenhauer, Schorlem- 
mer, Schutzenberger and Schwegler ; describe for 
you the anomalistic revolution of the moon ; find for 
you the center of gravity of any body, without at the 
same time losing his own; and to crown all he will 
enumerate to you the various stages of biological 
evolution through which you have passed since you 
left the primordial protoplasmic cell. And yet the 
course seems to be a healthy one, for we find the 
numerical strength of the Faculty gradually increasing, 
and our worthy Dean tells me that in the past two 
years fifty additional students have been added to its 
roll. Seemingly not content with the blessings which 
she has already bestowed upon us, Fortune has given us 
yet another cause for self-congratulation. For the 
Faculty of Arts alone, of all McGill’s branches, can 
boast the pi’esence of ladies within her walls. Would 
they had a better champion this evening, for a speaker 
cannot be too eloquent in their behalf. In proof of 
the extent of the gallantry of the male students, we 
find them actually giving up some of the foremost 
places on examination lists to the ladies. Nevertheless, 
we are together seeking the same goal — namely, the 
attainment of those things which all can alike pos- 
sess, and in respect of which one man’s wealth tends 
to enhance his neighbor’s. 

Ladies and Gentlemen, I sincerely thank you for 
your kind remembrance of the Faculty of Arts. 

D. J. Evans responded, on behalf of Medicine, as 
follows : — 

Mr. Chairman, Ladies, and Gentlemen. — I rise 
to speak for a Faculty, which, out of a delicate 
sense of consideration for the previous speaker, 
I will not call the “finest Faculty,” but at least 
the oldest Faculty of McGill. Our Faculty is 
conspicuous to-night, conspicuous by her absence. 
In explanation I would say that when the mat- 
ter of a University Dinner was brought before 
us, we, after deliberation, decided to let it stand 
over, at least for this session. I believe Science 
and Arts followed the same course. We then ar- 
ranged for and held our Faculty Dinner early in De- 
cember, and so could not take part in the University 
Dinner also. I hope when those whom I have the 
honor to represent, hear how the tables on this oc- 
casion have been beautified by the presence of some 
of Canada’s fairest flowers, they will be only too 
happy, on some future occasion, to come and enjoy 
their fragrance along with the other Faculties of Old 
McGill. I thank you, in the name of the under- 
graduates in Medicine, for the hearty way in which 
you have received this toast. 

Mr. Vipond, on behalf of the Faculty of Law, in re- 
sponding to the toast, brought before the minds of his 
hearers the great changes that civilization had wrought 
in Canada, and then pointed out how the principles of 
law were now invoked in the settlement of interna- 
tional disputes, andwere displacing the weapons of war. 
Mr. Vipond was opposed to women entering the profes- 



sion of Law, lest their charms should prove more 
effective than facts and sound reasoning, and the great 
treasures of legal lore be invoked in vain against 
a more subtle force. He referred to the vast wealth 
of legal literature that had been growing long before 
the world had necessity for Arts and Science students, 
and how the then greatest systems of Roman, English 
and French law had been incorporated into and 
formed our civil law. Mr. Vipond paid a tribute of 
honour to the great legal minds of Doutre, Dorion, 
Meredith, Cartier and Kerr, and concluded with an 
appeal to his fellow students to do their duty in life 
by striving to maintain justice and right. 

Mr. A. E. Shuttleworth, on behalf of Applied 
Science, as follows : — 

Mr. Chancellor, Ladies, and Gentlemen, — In speak- 
ing as a representative of my fellow-students, it 
affords me great assistance to know just where those 
for whom 1 am speaking are situated ; and in previ- 
ously glancing my eye down these tables I was glad 
to find that, on this as upon all other favorable oppor- 
tunities, a very fair number of the Science boys are 
awake to a proper appreciation of the true poetry of 
social life. Your presence there, I find, has, during 
this enjoyable evening, occasionally necessitated on 
my part a little anxiety ; but, however, I know you 
are right good fellows, and do mean well. To repre- 
sent fully the Faculty to which I have the honor to 
belong, would require a combination of ingenious 
qualities seldom the possession of one individual. A 
combination in its nature profoundly mathematical, 
inventive, imaginative, highly chemical, having an 
intense interest in the resemblances and differences 
of all living creatures, and of all inorganic matter. 
It would require, beside, a wide-awake student spirit, 
fond of College sports and intent to win. These 
qualities, and these alone, would enable me to fully 
represent the spirit of the Science Faculty. But 
though I speak for you, we do not regard you sepa- 
rated and alone, but as an important factor of one 
great united whole. It is in this respect that I love 
to think of my Faculty, and of the University to 
which we belong. It is in this respect that she is to 
make the most of what she possesses, and thereby 
incite influence and power to assist her earnest 
efforts. The Science Faculty in McGill is a particu- 
larly interesting one. Those who, since its establish- 
ment, have been more intimately connected with its 
work and progress, will, I believe, say with me that 
its important interest has been regularly and actively 
increasing both within and without the University. 
Never before has that interest been greater than now, 
when, notwithstanding the already recent extensions 
and improvements — the achievements of most gener- 
ous gifts — in contemplation of the still greater Work- 
man extension, equaling anything on this continent, 
our Dean is abroad to-day. May you, for whom I 
am speaking, when you have passed beyond the im- 
mediate control and influence of McGill’s regulations 
and instruction, retain throughout your active life, 
that liberal educational spirit, that determined, robust 
fair play which distinguish Science of McGill as cham- 
pions upon the field of College sports, and as students 
within her educational walls. Knowing, Mr. Chan- 



144 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1890. 



cellor, that to encroach for one moment upon the 
time of those who are to follow, is to forfeit for ever 
my privilege of again speaking at McGill’s Annual 
Banquets, therefore these few remarks must suffice. 
In conclusion, allow me, on behalf of my fellow- 
students, to express our sincere appreciation for the 
cordial manner in which the toast was proposed to 
the Undergraduates. 

Mr. Darling, on behalf of the Faculty of Compara. 
tive Medicine : — 

Mr. President, Ladies, and Gentlemen, — It gives 
me great pleasure to be present this evening as the 
representative of the Undergraduates of the Faculty 
of Comparative Medicine. Being a new Faculty, our 
relations with our Sister Faculties are not yet as in- 
timate as we would desire, but we hope, as time goes 
on, to become better acquainted, and also to form an 
important branch of the University. Although a 
young Faculty as regards forming part of the Uni- 
versity, the school has been in existence for nearly 
twenty-five years, and we can point with pride to 
some of the most successful veterinary surgeons in 
America ; this, in a great measure, has been due to 
the assistance and encouragement received from the 
Faculty of Medicine. The additional advantages to 
be derived from the change, will aid in placing our 
profession in the position to which it is entitled, and 
I am sure that the Graduates of this Faculty will 
always maintain the reputation held by Gradu- 
ates of McGill, wherever they are found. As 
regards the assertion of the able representative of 
Arts, that they were the only Faculty admitting ladies 
to their course, I am sure that if the ladies apply to 
the Faculty of Comparative Medicine, that they will 
be received with open arms. The boast of Science, 
that they hold the championship in the field of sports, 
is misleading as regards base ball ; this was fully de- 
monstrated by a few of Our Americans on the Campus 
last fall. Thanking you for the kind manner in 
which you received this toast. 

In asking Chief Justice Johnson to propose the 
toast of the “ Graduates,” Sir Donald Smith referred 
to the recent honor which has been so justly confer- 
red on Justice Johnson. 

Justice Johnson, in proposing the toast, said that the 
good words uttered by Sir Donald were heartily reci- 
procated by him, than whom he acknowledged no 
truer or warmer friend. The Hon. Judge went on to 
express his sincere pleasure in being present at such 
a notable gathering of the members of the University, 
and that though not of them, he well recollected the 
early struggling days of McGill and could enter into 
the feelings of pride that the members of the Uni- 
versity must feel in the success that had been achiev- 
ed. He spoke of the distinguished literary and scien- 
tific position attained by the Principal of the Uni- 
versity, of the important additions he has made to the 
literature of the world, more especially in the dis- 
cussion on the relation of science and religion. He, 
the speaker, came to this country when a mere boy, 
when McGill University was not known, when the 
will of the founder was still before the courts of 
justice in dispute. He had, witn the imperfect edu- 
cation and without the advantages his hearers had of 



a university education, to grind his way as best he 
could to such a position as had happily led at last to 
something like success. Whether deserved or not, 
others might judge. It was achieved when this coun- 
try was in the throes of political trouble of the dark- 
est description ; it was achieved in days when 
this country was plunged in rebellion ; it was achiev- 
ed in days when there was no university and hardly 
any English education in this province, except one 
or two schools. These were trials and difficulties to 
which those present at that gathering would never be 
exposed, and he mentioned these things not to eulo- 
gize himself but to encourage his hearers. He could 
not but reflect upon the career of McGill University. 
At the outset a cry was raised at the nomination of 
the late Mr. Ferrier as chancellor. This and like 
matters were the difficulties which had to be contend- 
ed with by a community struggling in its first efforts 
for commercial life. He also remembered when Mc- 
Gill college had no professors, and when it was in 
the hands of one or two most excellent gentlemen, 
who were hampered by want of means. Remember- 
ing these things he could not but congratulate the 
graduates of the university on the great change avhich 
had taken place. For fifty years he had been a spec- 
tator of the career of McGill, and if there was one 
thing more than another he would say to the gradu- 
ates, it was that they had reason to be proud that it 
was a Canadian university. It was founded upon 
Canadian patriotism, benevolence and generosity. In 
addressing an assembly like that he could not but 
allude to the pleasure he felt at knowing he was ad- 
dressing graduates of both sexes. Some years ago there 
were those who wrote against the higher education 
of women, and pointed out that if they received an 
education to fit them for higher callings they would 
have to take higher responsibilities. He could only 
say that if they were willing to avail themselves of 
the profession he represented, so far as he was con- 
cerned they were perfectly welcome to do so. No 
man or no woman could be any the worse for the 
best education it was in their power to obtain, pro- 
vided it were properly used. 

Mr. John S. Hall, jr., M.P.P., was called on, and 
first made some remarks on the successful passage of 
the B. A. Bill. He spoke of the great assistance re- 
ceived from both nationalities. In that connection 
he mentioned the names of Mercier, Taillon, Robi- 
doux, Larue, Tessier, Casgrain, Flynn, Nantel and 
others. A large amount of the work fell on Mr. 
Gilman and others. He then made some remarks as 
a graduate in Arts and Law, and made some reference 
to the standing of them in the world’s arena. 

Hon. Judge Church received quite an ovation on 
rising to respond. He said that although he happen- 
ed to be a governor of McGill he wished it to be 
understood that he was not going to speak there as a 
governor but as one of the alumni. It was now 
thirty-six years since he first enrolled his name on 
the college books. At that time there were two 
faculties, arts and medicine. There was no library, 
no museum, nothing but a piece of land with two or 
three buildings upon it, which were apparently fall- 
ing into decay. All that was now changed. The 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



145 



1890.] 



faculty of arts now had a reputation equal to auy in 
the Dominion, and the medical faculty had no peer 
on the North American continent. He had seen the 
birth of the faculty of comparative science, which had 
grown from insignificant proportions to be one of 
the most popular and successful faculties of the 
university. How much of this was due to the gener- 
ous munificence ot the people of Montreal and to the 
efforts of the professors and others connected with the 
faculty he need not then speak of. The universsty 
was a Montreal institution, and it owed its existence 
to the munificence of a Montreal merchant. Through- 
out its whole history it had received the cord HI sup- 
port and sympathy of this great commercial metropolis. 

The toast of “Sister Universities” was proposed by 
Principal Mac Vicar, of the Presbyterian College. He 
said he was speaking of a numerous sisterhood. They 
are not too numerous as centres of education ; there is 
room for all the work they can do and much more. 
I here is no quarrel among them, their aim is the 
same, although some pay more attention to some 
branches than others. He thought there was a great 
future in store for Canada, and also for McGill and 
all other universities. Let there be a national spirit 
among them all. Universities and colleges are de- 
pendent on common and high schools. These are 
not as efficient as he would like them to be, but there 
has been a great improvement. 

Principal Adams, of the University of Bishop’s 
College, Lennoxville, responded. He referred to 
the toast as a far-reaching one in Canada. He regret- 
ted that Sir Daniel Wilson was not present to respond 
to the toast, as was expected. He thought it the 
proper time to tell them that the smaller universities 
are in perfect harmony in their appreciation of the 
greatness of McGill. He made reference to the pas- 
sage of the B.A. Bill, and said that the influence of a 
sister university, Laval, should not be forgotten in 
that connection. 

Letters expressing regret at inability to attend were 
received from Sir Daniel Wilson, Toronto ; Principal 
Grant, Kingston ; Mr. Mulock,M.P., Principal Forrest, 
Dalhousie College, Halifax ; and Principal Burwash, 
Victoria University, Cobourg ; and from the follow- 
ing Governors of the University : — Sir A. T. Galt, 
LL.D.; John Molson, Esq. ; Hon. J. J. C. Abbott, 
D.C.L. ; Hugh McLennan, Esq.; George Hague, 
Esq. ; Samuel Finley, Esq. 

During the earlier part of the evening Silverstein’s 
orchestra rendered some excellent selections, and 
later, b< tween the toasts, the newly organized Glee 
Club, under the leadership of Prolessor Bohrer, gave 
some selections of vocal music from the McGill Song 
Book ; in several of the pieces the voices of lady and 
male undergraduates being blended with excellent 
effect. The rendering of this important part of the 
programme showed clearly the progress that lias been 
made in vocal culture in McGill since the formation 
of the Club. On a future occasion it is to be hoped 
they will render some of the hearty choruses contain- 
ed in the song book. 

About midnight the most successful social event in 
the University’s career was brought to a close by the 



singing of the National Anthem. Despite the late- 
ness of the hour the enthusiastic undergraduates, with 
not a few of the graduates, extemporised an informal 
programme, consisting of choruses, rather more heart- 
ily than correctly sung, and impromptu speeches from 
the representatives from Queen’s and Bishop’s Univer- 
sities, whose welcome prevented their being heard, 
and from leading students of the several faculties. 

SUBSCRIBERS. 

Sir Donald A. Smith, Chancellor of the University, and Lady 
Smith ; Sir William Dawson, Lady Dawson and Miss Dawson ; 
J. H. R. Molson and Mrs. Molson ; Sir Joseph Hickson and 
Lad) Hickson ; E. B. Greenshields, B.A, and Mrs. Greenshields ; 
Hon. Judge Church ; A. E. Gault, Esq; Chief-Justice Johnson 
and Mrs. Johnson ; Rev. Principal Adams, Bishop’s College ; 
Prof. Alex. Johnson, LL.D, Dean Arts Faculty, and Mrs. John- 
son ; Prof. Geo. Cornish, LL. D; Rev. Principal MacVicar, 
D.D, Presbyterian College ; J. R. Dougall, M.A ; Kev. Prof. J. 
C. Murray, LL.D, and Mrs. Murray ; Prof. B. J. Harrington, 
Ph.D, and Mrs. Harrington ; Prof. J. S. Archibald, D.C.L, and 
Mrs. Archibald ; Prof. Geo. Ross, M.A, M.D ; J. S. Hall, B.A, 

B.C.L; F. W. Kelly, B.A; Prof. Robert Craik, M.l), Dean Medi- 
cal Faculty; T. A. Rodger, M.D; J. H. Burland, B.A. Sc; Miss G. 
N. Burland ; Prof. M. Hutchinson and Mrs. Hutchinson ; W. T. 
Skaife, B.A. Sc; Rev. Principal Barbour, Congregational College, 
and .Mrs. Barbour; Prof. N. W. Trenholme, D.C.L, Dean Law 
Faculty, and Mrs. Trenholme; Prof. T. W. Mills, M.A, M.D ; 
Hon. J. S. C. Wurtele, D.C.L, and Mrs. Wurtele ; Prof. P. 
J. Darey, LL.D ; Prof. G. P. Girdwood, M.D ; Prof. Wm. 
Gardner, M.D, and Mrs. Gardner ; Prof. C. H. McLeod, Ma. E ; 
Prof. L. H. Davidson, D.C.L, and Mrs. Davidson ; Prof. 
Frank Buller, M.D, and Mrs. Buller ; Prof. Geo. Wilkins, 
M.D ; Prof. G. H. Chandler, M.A ; Prof. J. 0. Cameron, 
M.D; Rev. Prof. Coussirat, B.A; Prof. A. J. Eaton, M.A; 
Prof. A. McGoun, B.C.L, and Mrs. McGoun ; P. T. Lafleur, 
M.A ; P. Toews, B.A ; W. G. Johnston, M.D ; R. F. Ruttan, 
M.D; Jas. Bell, M.D; M. E. Hersey, B.A. Sc; T. E. J. 
Alloway, M.D; Prof. D. McEachern, M.D, and Mrs. Mc- 
Eacliern ; Prof. C. Baker; Prof. C. McEachern; Frank D. 
Adams, M.A. Sc ; C. J. Fleet, B.C.L, and Mrs. Fleet; Mrs. 
Redpath ; R. Reford, Esq ; Miss Hunter, B.A ; Miss Murphy, 

B. A ; Miss Evans, B.A ; Miss Murray, B.A ; Miss McFee, B.A; 
L. R. Gregor, B.A; W. Patterson, M.A ; W. Dixon, B.A; 
Selkirk Cross, B.C.L; D. Gurd, M.D, and ills. Gurd ; J. 
Stirling, M.D; J. Hutchison, M.D; Wm. Porteous, M.D; 
F. G. Finley, M.D; Judge Davidson and Mrs. Davidson; 

C. J. Doherty, B.C.L.; R. H. Clerk, B.C.L ; Charles 
Barnard, B.C.L; A. G. Nicliol, B.C.L; A. It. Ouglitred, 
B.C.L; C. J. Brown, B.C.L ; F. W. Ritchie, B.C.L ; R. Mur- 
chison, B.C.L; Hector Buie, B.C.L; A. D. Taylor, B.C.L; 
J. T. Cook, B.C.L. ; R. S. Weir, B.C.L. ; J. S. Mackie, 
B.C.L; A. G. Cross, B.C.L; George Parmalee, B.C.L; W. 

D. Lighthall, B. C. L ; F. Topp, B. C. L ; J S. Buchan, 
B.C.L; J. Dunlop, B.C.L; Miss Helen S. Gairdner ; John 
Kennedy, C.E; Andrew Robertson, Esq; Alexander Robert- 
son, B.A; G. W. Stephens, B.C.L; T. J. Day, B.A; Frank 
Weir, B.C.L ; II. H. Lyman, il.A ; W. E. Lyman, B.A ; 
Clarence Lyman, B.A, B C.L ; H. M. Ami, M.A ; G. M. Ed- 
wards, B.A. Sc ; M. W. Hopkins, B.A. Sc; J. A. Robert, B.A. 
Sc; E. H. Hamilton, B.A. Sc; W. Walbank, B.A. Sc; H. Bir- 
kett, M.D ; J. A. MacPhail, B.A ; It. N. Walsh, B.A ; D. J. 
Evans, Darling, W. S. Morrow, N. Auderson, H. P. Yates, 
B.A; W. E. Walsh, Irwin, H. Jamieson. 

Undergraduates. 

Misses Binmore, Botterell, H. J. Botterell, F Botterell, 
Derrick, Mills, Monk, Davidson, Reay, Leach, Williams, M. 
Lee, Fairclough, Hunt, H. W. Lyman, Miller, Pitcher, Hen- 
drie, Kennedy, Robins, K. Campbell, Abbott, R. Campbell, 
Brown, Tatley, Henderson. 

Law Students. 

D. H. Girouard, A. E. Harvey, T. J. Vipoud. L. P. Pelltier, 
F. W. Hibbard, B.A ; C. Geoll'riou, A. E. Hatchette, H. V. 
Truell, C. P. Ryan, H. C. Hutchison. 



14 6 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1890. 



Art Students. 

First Year. — Hunter, Mansur, Hickson, Gault, McKeraclier, 
Gurd, Donahue, Munn. 

Second Year.— W. H. Kollmyer, A. Wood, Jaquays, Smith, 
J. Taylor, Geo. Dovey, S. Carmichael. 

Third Year. — W. J. Gunn, J. F. Warne, A. R. Holden, W. 
Marne, J. Tees, A. A. Cole, J. M. McGregor, W. LeRossignol, 
Geo. White, W. Ellenwood, S. Moore. 

Fourth Year. — H. Sutherland, A. It. Hall, S. W. Mack, 
Walsh, Peers Davidson, D. H. Hamilton. 

Science Students. 

A. E. Shuttleworth, C. B. Reed, P. W. Redpath, W.Smaill, 
G. W. Mooney, E. E. S. Mattice, R. S. Lea, R. H. Jamie- 
son, A. H. Hawkins, P. N. Evans, C. H. Ellacott, W. S. 
Denison, S. Calvert, H. Y. Russell, P. H. Middleton, R. Bick- 
erdike, M. L. Williams, T. H. Wingham, W. H. Walker, H. 
Stewart, E A. Stone, J. E. Schwitzer, A. Kloek, W.C. Adams, 
P. J. Murphy, L. N. Pink, F. Rutherford, J. A. Turner, J. 
G. R. Wain wright, Murphy, Gunn, Taylor, R. N. Walsh, Dar- 
ling, A A. Robertson, W. Donahue, G‘. H. Mathewson, S. Car- 
michael, A. A. Cole, A. R. Holden, H. G. Russell, W. H. 
Kollmyer, H. M. Kinghorn, R. A. Gunn, J. M. McGregor, 
F. M. Fry, Alex. Tolrnie, James Taylor, Smyth, C. E. Reed, 
S. S. Burns, S. W. Mack. 

Committee of Management. 



In addition to these there are ninety-six colleges in 
British India, containing nearly 9,000 students, and 
as to acadamies and public schools their name is 
legion. There are now schools for the teaching of 
English in every district, but it will yet be genera- 
tions before education can be spread throughout the 
people, and only then will India be happy. 



Connected with the popular indignation in Eng- 
land over the change from the Julian to the Gregorian 
Calendar. When the son of Lord Macclesfield was 
standing for Parliament in the County of Oxford, 
the rabble greeted his appearance with the taunting 
words — “ Give us back, you rascal, the eleven days 
which your father stole from us.” 



LITERATURE. 



W. H. F. SHARSW00D, 

Publishers’ Agent, 



Undergraduate Representatives.— Miss H.I.T. Botterell, Arts, 
’90 ; Messrs. A. Rives Hall, Arts, ’90 ; W. T. Gunn, Arts, 
’91 ; A. E. Harvey, Law, ’90; F. J. Hatchett, Law, ’91 ; A. 
E. Shuttleworth, Science, ’90 ; H. G. Russell, Science, ’91 ; R. 
N. Walsh, Comp. Med, ’90 ; A. Darling, Comp. Med, ’90. 

Graduate Representatives.— Messrs. C. J. Fleet, B.A, B.C.L ; 
C. H. McLeod, M.E ; James Stewart, M.D ; Miss B. Evans’ 
B.A ; Messrs. J. S. Buchan, B.C.L ; W. Dixon, B.A : F. W 
Hibbard, B.A, Law, ’91. 

It might be noticed that all the students in the 
third and fourth years of Science, with the exception 
of one in each, subscribed to the dinner. 



College TJJorlb. 



Miss Hodges, who was recently appointed instructor 
in the university at Lund, is the first woman ever em- 
ployed as a teacher in a Swedish University. 

Dr. King, an American lady physician in China, 
lately astonished the natives by performing with suc- 
cess a delicate and difficult surgical operation. She is 
now chief physician to the family of Count Li, the 
eminent statesman in Shanghai whose wife she saved. 
.The Empress of China recently sent her son to con- 
sult Dr. King for phthisis. China is said to offer an 
excellent field for woman doctors. 

VICTORIA^ INDIAN PROFITS. 

The Queen pays more than $10,000,000 a year out 
of the profits of her Indian farm for the education of 
her tenants. There are at Bombay, Madras and 
Calcutta great universities on the model of the Uni- 
versity of London, and the whole of India is dotted 
with colleges and schools. The universities have more 
than 2,000 native students, and the professorships 
include law, medicine, engineering and the classics. 



ORDERS FOR 

BOOKS, 



PERIODICALS, 
STATIONERY, 
Promptly Executed. 



180 St. J ames Street, 

City and District Bank Building , 

MONTREAL. 



OUR ADVERTISERS. 



Armstrong k Radford, 
Ashford, C., 

Atwater k Co., 

Birks, H., & Co., 

Chapleau k Co., 

Clarke, G. W., 

Gumming k Brewis, 

Doughty, A. G., 

Drysdale, Win., k Co., 

Dyer, W. A., k Co., . 
Featherston, A. M., 

Gertli, E. A., . 

Gray, Hy. R. , 

Greenshields k Co., 

Gurney, E. and C., k Co., 
Henderson, John k Co., 
Jensen, J. L., 

Lyman, Sons k Co., 
Macaulay, W. B. T., 
Montreal Steam Laundry Co., 
Murray, Wm., 

MacBean, D. B. A., 

Me En tyre k Son, . 

McLaren, W. D., 

Ness, T. W., 

Nightingale, D., 

Nordheimer k Co., 

Notman k Son, 

Payne Geo., 

Periard, A., 

Reid, Robert, 

Robertson k Co., 

Ross, Hugh, 

Sliarswood, W. H. F., 
Sheppard, Geo. «)., 
Summerhayes k Walford, 
Tarrante, Sami., 



PAGE, 

149 

150 
136 
150 
136 
150 

148 

149 
136 
136 
149 
148 

1 48 
136 
147 
147 
147 

147 

149 

150 

149 

148 
136 

150 

147 

148 
150 
150 
148 

148 

145 
136 

149 

146 

148 

149 
149 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



147 



Home Medical Batteries 


SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS 


— AND — 

ELECTRO-MEDICAL APPARATUS, 


and chemical APPARATUS. 


ELECTRIC BELLS, BATTERIES, ANNUNCIATORS, MOTORS, 
EXPERIMENTAL COILS, 


$ tfull $todk dopdthptly or\ Hhi}d, Imported 
Difedt ffoir} tl}e I<ekdii}^ kptifkrttife^d 


Learners’ Telegrajiliic Instruments, &c. 


of tt}e Wofld. 


EVERYTHING IN THE ELECTRICAL LINE. 


AN INSPECTION INVITED. 


X. W. NESS, 694 Craig St., Montreal. 


LYMAN, SONS & CO., 


Type- writers, Copygrapus, and Office Supplies. 


384 ST. PAUL STREET. 




JOHN HENDERSON & CO., 


ROYNI, DYE Y/ORKfi 


H&ttan and Furriers, 


706 CRAIG STREET. 


229 ST. JAMES STREET. 




Special Agents for College Trenchers, &c. 



E. & C. GURNEY & CO., 

dz 337 St. E»a.-o-Xj Steeet, Honteeal 

— FWholesale Manufacturers* — 



STOVES, 

GRATES, 

RANGES, 

SPATES. 



GURNEY’S 



C elebrAIIL H 3LW at e r H eaters 



AND 



Cast Bundy Radiators. 




Sot Air Furnaces 



Coal or Wood. 



ALL GOODS GUARANTEED, 



Circulars on A pplication. 



385 & 387 

St. Paul Street. 

MONTREAL. 




148 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



THE MOST CONVENIENTLY SITUATED 

l^fiotograijfiic Studio 

FOR McGILL COLLEGE, 

IS THAT OF 

GUMMING & BREWIS 

117 and 119 Mansfield St. 

SPECIAL KATES TO STUDENTS. 

Telephone 4620. Satisfaction Guaranteed. 

“ Our Little Favorite,” One dollar per doz. 




AND 



• ■ • LEGAL STATIONER, • • • 

2 3 ST. JAMES STREET, 

(Near the Court House,) 

nVEOlsTT^E^Xj. 



Established 1859. 

IE£_ 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST 
ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STREET, 

(CORNER LA GA UCHETIERE, ) 

Montreal. 

The Dispensing of Physicians* Prescriptions a Specialty. 
Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers sup- 
plied with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 

N.B.— Observe New Address. 



ROBERT REID, 

Montreal Marble and Granite Works, 

Cor. ST. CATHERINE AND ALEXANDER. 

Monumental & Cemetery fort of every description. 

WOOD MANTLE-TILES FOR FIRE-PLACES AND FLOORING, 

AND ALL KINDS OF 

Fire-Place Furniture. 



Tlie Merit Misti or Roman Batli 

140 ST. MONIQUE ST., Joot of McGill College Ave. 

LARGE AND COMPLETE. 

Purifies the Blood ! Secures Perfect Cleanliness ! 
A Luxury without a Sting ! 

Gentlemen received from 6 to 8 a.m., 2 to 9 p.m. 

Ladies, “ “ 10 to 12 noon. 

D. B. A. MacBEAN, M.D. 



Doctors’ and Students’ Headquarters 

— FOR — 




Spiller & Co.’s (London, E.) Du Khedive Extra Fine 
CIGARETTES. 

Lowe & Co.’s THOMPSON PIPES and others, 
and' TURKISH iLba^COS 510 ^ ° f CANES in the City ' VIR GTNIA 

E, A, GrERTH, 

2235 St. Catherine Street, Queen’s Block. 

GEORGE ZELA.1T FT IE , 

CUN MAKER, 

687 CRAIG STREET, West of Bleury Street, - MONTREAL. 

Maker of tlie Oennlne Racing' Skates. 

GF" Repairs Promptly Attended to. N.B.— Skates Ground. 




Banjos & Guitars. 

Sole agent for the celebrated 

“ BRUNO ” GUITAR 

AND 

Dobson “ Yictor ” Banjo. 

Guitars with Patent Head 
from $5 to $50 each. 
Banjos with latest im- 
provements 

from $7.50 to $50 each . 



Best Russian Gut Strings, 

Banjo Heads Replaced 



AND 

Musical Instrameyits of every 
description repaired. 



GEOKGE J. SHEPPARD 



2282 St. Catherine St. 



N.B. — Special discount to 

Students. 




D. NIGHTINGALE. 

MANUFACTURER OF AND DEALER IN 

Fool & Billiard Tables, & Billiarfl Supplies, 

m2 NOTRE DAME ST., MONTREAL, Canada. 



A®-- Improved Billiard Cushions. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



149 



NOW READY ! 

A New Book in Shorthand: 

“The Idylls of the King.” 

By ALFRED LORD TENNYSON. 

An Engraved Shorthand Version of the above by Arthur G. 
Doughty, beautifully Illustrated, is now completed. Printed 
in red and black, on vellum paper. Cloth and leather binding 

All communications and orders to be addressed to 

A. C. TROTTER, 

O- Box 1 r 73- i i, - ZLvdZoxitreetl. 

TUTORING. 

MR. W. B. T. MACAULAY, 

EDINBURGH UNIVERSITY AND HIGH SCHOOL, MONTREAL. 

Students fitted for Matriculation into all Faculties of the 
University and for other Examinations. 

•37 McGill College Avenue. 

ARMSTRONG & RADFORD, 

Haberdashers and Outfitters, 

ALWAYS IN POSSESSION OF 

Latest Novelties and conceits in (Gentle- 
men's Wear . 

2246 ST. CATHERINE STREET, ( Opposite Victoria St.) 

TELEPHONE No. 4574. 

Agents for* 

Canada Steam Laundry and Dye Works, 

1494 ST. CATHERINE STREET. 
Special attention paid to Students’ orders. 

WM. MURRAY, 

MANUFACT URER AND IMPORTER OF 

fine iftm amt pat 

NO. 2202 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 

( Opposite the English Cathedral , ) 

MONTREAL. 

N.B. — Liberal Discount to Students. 



RING UP ! BELL TELEPHONE No. 1237 

FEDERAL “ “ 693, 

For Prices of Photographs 

OR TO MAKE YOUR APPOINTMENTS. 

Exceptionally Good Rate to Students, and none but the 
Fiuest Work sent out from our Studios. 

s@~ Photos, of Professors on Sale ! 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD, 

1 BLEURY STREET. 



- i BU Y YOUR ( 

Boots and Shoes, 

Rubbers, Overshoes and Moccasins 

— AT — 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

shoe: stores. 

UP TOWN : QUEEN’S HALL BLOCK, 

2243 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 



Tlie West End 

HAIR -DRESSING AND HAIR - CUTTING 

AND 

Shampooning Establishment, 

SAMUEL TARRANTE 

From England, 

2305 & 2307 St. Catherine St. 

The Place for all the Students to go for a Hood Hair-Cut, &c. 



HUGH ROSS, 

[Successor to J. D. Anderson], 

MERCHANT TAILOR, 

206 St. James St., Montreal, 

Has this season on hand a beautiful Stock of Goods of all kinds, 
such as this house has always been famed for. 

Clerical, Advocates' and Academical Gowns 

MILITARY UNIFORMS AND HIGHLAND COSTUMES 
A SPECIALTY. 

Inspection Invited. SDecial Discount to Students. 




150 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



\/|I. N0WN § m, 

Photographers, 

STUOEJFTS’ PORTRAITS 

: : CEASS GROUPS 

PRIPATE GROUPS 
PORTRAITS OF P ROEESSORS : 
COEEEGE PIER'S, Sfc. 

17 ZBlzettzr^ Street, 

MONTREAL. 

Montreal Steam Laundry Co’y. 

LIMITED, 

21 and 23 ST. AXTOINE ST., - MONTREAL. 

The largest and most complete Laundry in the Dominion / 

Satisfaction Guaranteed at the Lowest Prices. 

SPECIAL RATES OFFERED TO FAMILIES, HOTELS, COL 
LEGES, AND ALL PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS. 

Sliirts, Collars and Cuffs made to order at reasonable prices ! 



THE GEJXUIJVE 

C o O IPZ ’ s Fbieitd 
BAKING POWDER 

Is the BEST VALUE in the market, is made from 
the PUREST INGREDIENTS, gives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to the user, and should be pre- 
ferred by all careful housekeepers. Retailed 
everywhere. 



TELEPHONE Nos., Bell, Federal, 
580 <&. 2482 . 1683 . 



T. H. LOVE, 

Manager. 



O. ASHFORD, 

Medical Bookseller and Stationer, 



KEEPS IN STOCK 



All the MEDICAL TEXT BOOKS used in McGill College, 
besides a large variety of NOTE BOOKS, at 
prices to give satisfaction. 

Stylo Pens and Fountain Pens, 75c., 10 p. c. disc’t., with others more expensive 

HISTOLOGICAL SPECIMEN BOXES, COVER GLASSES, SLIDES, &c. 

l^oira.trea.1 G-en.. Hospital 3E=ls.a.r3=n.a.copceia., 25c. 

G. ASHFORD, 

Near University st. si 8 Dorchester St., Montreal. 



44th YEAR. 



NORDHEIMER’S 



ESTABLISHED 1845. 




OF THE STANDARD CELEBRATED MAKERS 

STEINWAY, CHICKERING, HAINES, NORDHEIMER. 

THE 

Public are Invited to Call & Inspect our New Stock & Compare Values. 

A. «£ S. NORDHEIMER, 

213 ST, J AMES STEEET, IMZOItTTlR.IEA'L. 



HENRY BIRKS * CO. JEWEL LERS, & c . 



Fine Jewellery, Silver Ware, Watches, Clocks, &c. 

A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF ARTICLES SUITABLE FOR PRIZES, &c. 

and 287 St. James Street, - - Montreal 



238 a nd 240 St. Jam es Street. Montreal. 



THE UNIVERSAL 

O*-. W. CLARKE, Importer of 

Fine Fancy Goods, . Art Metal Ware, . Fine Leather Goods 

Ladies’ and Gent’s Fitted Travelling Bags , Toilet Cases, &c. 

ALL KINDS OF RICH GOODS SUITABLE FOR WEDDING, BIRTHDAY and COMPLIMENTARY PRESENTS. 




