Vol XIII 



No. 13 






















200 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, Guerin & Greenshields, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, &c., 

Chambers: Exchange Bank Building, 

1728 NOTRE DAME STREET, - - MONTREAL 

Ji N. Greenshields. Edmond Guerin, R, A. E- Greenshields. 



IjOBEHTSON, FLEET k FALCONER, 

ADVOCATES, 

157 ST. TYlIMIIES STREET 
MONTREAL. 



ATWATER & MACKIE, 

Advocates, Barristers, Commissioners, &c„ 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

Wl St. Janies St., Montreal. 



CHAPLEAU, HALL, NICOLLS & BROWN, 

ADVOCATES, 

Earristers, Commissioners, &c., 

147 St. James St., Montreal. 



Hon. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. 
JOHN S. HALL, Jr. 



ARMINE D. NICOLLS 
ALBERT. J BROWN. 



$1.50 per UTo. TIIbT. 




•Q 

w< 

o 



The STANDARD of the DOMINION. 




D. McEKTYRE & < 

Fine Custom Tailors. 

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 



53 BEAVER HALL HILL. 




11 



Us, 





, It, 



MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 



W. A. DYER & CO., 
Pltarmaceotical & Dispensing Chemists, 

14 & 16 Phillips Square, Cor. St. Calherine St.. 

MONTREAL. 

Bandages, Roller, Muslin, 

Bandages, Cotton, 

Bandages. Absorbent, 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze, 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, Assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent, 

Cotton Wool, Borated, 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated, 

Cotton Wool, Sublimated. 
Drainage Tubes, Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent, 

Gauze, Borated, 

Gauze, Carbolized, 

Gauze, Eucalyptol. 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze. Naphthalin. 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, Cogbill; Inhalers, Celluloid, 

Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached, 

Jute, Absorbent, 

Jute, Carbolized, 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels ; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes ; 
Sponges, Antiseptic: Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain; Sponges, 
Gamgee’s Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies'. 



HEADQUARTF RS 



-FOR— 



School and College Text Boots ! 

DRYSDALE’S 

232 st. «t_a_:m::i±!s st. 



.B ERICA /, I I'OltKS, BOOKS USER ij\~ J ft T COURSE 
SCIENCE TEXT BOOKS , 

THE VARIOUS THEOl.Ot/MCAU BOOKS. 

Full Assortment in stock and Supplied at Rock Bottom Prices 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books. Ac., Ac., 

+ ^ B ES r V ALU E I IV T O WIY t 



Stylographic Pens , Anti-Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty . 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

232 St. James Street, 

ALSO 

Branch Store 1423 St. Catherine St 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Vol. XIII.] McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, APRIL 14th, 1890. [No. 13. 



Umbemtu <f a^tte. 



BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

J. F. Mackif., B.A., B.C.L., President. 
C. A. Barnard, B.C.L., Sec.-Treas. 

F. G. Finley, M.D. 

J. A. Elliot, Arts ’90. 

Peers Davidson, Arts '90. 

John Clark, Med. ’91. 



MR. MCDONALD’S MUNIFICENCE. 

Mr. W. C. McDonald, with a munificence worthy 
of so eminent a man, has again come forward to the 
help of McGill. His splendid gift will afford an 
impetus to the cause of Education, whose force will 
never be spent, and whose influence McGill will feel 
so long as she is a University. Mr. McDonald’s 
name will be placed high amongst the benefactors 
of our University. 



EDITORS. 

J. A. MacPhail, B.A., Editor -in- Chief. 



S. W. Mack, Arts *90. 

E. H. Hamilton, B.A.Sc. 

D. B. Holden, B.A., Med.’91. 



F.W. Hibbard, B. A., Law ’91 
A. H. Hawkins, Science ’90. 
H. B. Yates, B.A. 



R. N. Walsh, Comp, Med., ’90. 



The University Gazette is published weekly during the 
College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which rule 
no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

Published by The University Gazette Co., P. O. Box 
1290, Montreal, and printed by The Burland Lith. Co., 9 
Bleury Street. 



CONTENTS. 



Editorials ... 
McGill News 
Societies - 
Correspondence 
Sporting - 
Personals - 
Exchanges 

Between the Lectures 
College World 



page. 
201-203 
. 203-212 
- 212 
212 

- 212 
. 212-213 
- 213 

. 213-214 
. 214 



Editorials. 



THE COMING ANNOUNCEMENTS. 



COLLEGE JOURNALISM. 

It has been said that 99 per cent, of mankind ac- 
cept their thoughts ready-made ; but this is not true 
to the same extent in University life. Most Univer- 
sity men and women think for themselves, and since 
each person’s mind, like their face, differs from others, 
so their opinions are liable to differ. The College 
newspaper is the one thing which every student 
feels himself most competent to judge. These differ- 
ences of opinion in regard to the College paper exist 
in minds which are so constituted that each one con- 
siders himself, or herself, almost infallible, while their 
stock of knowledge is not, comparatively, small, and 
their experience meagre. 

The average newspaper is partly read and believed, 
if not believed, “well, you can do what you like 
about it.” Every word in a College newspaper is 
read, occasionally two or three times, and if you do 
not agree with either the sentiment expressed or the 
form of expression, it is your duty to “ go for the 
editors.” 

Those who are most harsh in their criticism, are 
always among those who never do anything to lighten 
the burden of the editors. It would save the editors 
much unpleasantness if each one would refrain from 
criticising the paper till they have contributed one 
or two articles, or items of news. It would be in- 
teresting to have a balance sheet made out as 



At the Medical Convocation, Sir William Dawson 
hinted that before the session closed announcements 
would be made that would astonish and please the 
friends of the University. At present we are unable 
to state anything further, but it is almost certain that 
the friends of McGill have again come forward with the 
means to enable the good work it is doing to be car- 
ried on with renewed vigour. 



follows : — 

M. Grumpy, 

Dr. Cr. 

To X + 1 Harsh criticisms. By 0 contributions. 



THE MEDICAL FACULTIES. 

The fifty-seventh session of the Medical School 
was brought to a fitting close by the recent Convo- 



202 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1890 



cation. From the statement of the .Dean, it was 
shown to be the most successful in the history of the 
University in the attendance of students, the capa- 
bilities for doing work, and the efficiency of that 
which was done. The re-adjustment made at the be- 
ginning of the year has been found, by experience, 
to have been well ordered, and tending to a more 
perfect working of all the departments of the school. 
The teaching has been strengthened in sevoral places, 
and now it is questionable if there is a single weak 
point which needs a prop. It is true the work might 
be extended; the limits of the class rooms are nearly 
reached, the laboratories are filled to overflowing, 
and in some cases the classes have to be duplicated, 
but this excessive activity is the result of a well or- 
dered growth, for whose further extension means will, 
in due time, be found. One of the most notable fea- 
tures was the union of the Faculties of Human and 
Comparative Medicine ; but though it is only recently 
consummated, it has long been in effect, through the 
mutual respect and esteem the students and professors 
of both schools have acquired by working along com- 
mon lines. The annual announcement will be 
eagerly looked for, as the pressure that has been upon 
the classes, students, and teachers, must find escape 
in some direction — either in lengthening the winter 
term, or providing additional summer sessions. It 
would unburden students throughout their whole 
course if they could be relieved of two or three sub- 
jects, such as Botany and Histology, in a summer 
session after their first year. Another hopeful cir- 
cumstance is the absolute unanimity that exists in 
the Faculty among the students, among the professors, 
and between these two factors of the College life. 
During the past session there has been no ground of 
dissension, and, besides a strong faith in each other, 
there is growing an abiding faith in their school, and 
in its capability for the scientific teaching of its sub- 
ject. There are yet in store good things for the 
Medical student and profession, through the medium 
of McGill, and if the burden of work is increased, 
students have confidence that it is no useless work, 
but such as will make for their own success, for the 
advancement of their profession, and the good of 
humanity. 

AD EUNDEM DEGREES. 

The granting of Ad Eundem degrees is a question 
of more importance than would at first appear. The 
University is at present dealing with it, but the 
Graduates have all confidence that their interests will 
be fully considered. To obtain a degree from McGill 
is no sm ill undertaking, and any action that would 



tend to depreciate its value will at once be set down 
as an injustice to her own Graduates. The Univer- 
sity is first a teaching body and afterwards a degree 
conferring corporation. It demands four years’ resi- 
dence with a full attendance upon lectures ; it obliges 
candidates to submit to a long series of properly- 
graded examinations in which about half the matricu- 
lants fall by the way ; but the high standing of the 
University induces them to go through with all this 
toil for the sake of the honour it has to confer. 
There are European Universities which, in some re- 
spects, rank above McGill, but there are no Canadian 
or American institutions woi’thy to take a higher 
place. It is not a satisfactory sign that a man should 
desert his Alma Mater for any other, but when a 
graduate from an inferior College demands favours 
at the hands of another, it is demanding those things 
which the University at no time has conferred upon 
her own children, unless in regular form. By its 
charter, McGill possesses the power to grant Ad 
Eundem degrees, but it should be, as it always has 
been, a discretionary one, and not to be exercised 
without due cause. That the demand should be 
made is an acknowledgment of the superiority of 
McGill, but if our University were to undertake to 
guarantee the standing and endorse the credentials 
of all applicants, it would quickly depreciate the 
value of its own currency, which has always been 
accepted at its face value. If a graduate of any Col- 
lege can show that he has fulfilled conditions equal 
to those which McGill imposes, there might then be 
a disposition to grant, as a favour, a privilege that no 
man can demand as a right. If this is granted to 
the holders of any one degree, why not to all, and 
what then would become of the salutary Practice of 
the Faculty of Medicine, which compels every gradu- 
ate, upon whom it places its seal, to have passed the 
examinations leading to it, even if he holds creden- 
tials from London or Edinbui'gh ? There are men whom 
McGill has been delighted to honour, and she will 
do so still ; but to distinguish all who might apply 
in the same manner, would be doing a wrong to the 
graduates who have striven for the much-coveted re- 
ward. McGill has always been conservative in 
granting honorary degrees, and in no instance has 
an injustice been done by the titles she has con- 
ferred, but the University itself is the best judge of 
the cases which demand recognition. Ad Eundem 
degrees will con inue to be granted, but unless it be, 
as in the past, honoris causa, the door will be opened 
for what may prove a grave abuse. 

We are glad that the Graduates’ Society has taken 
this view of the case. 



1890.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



203 



THE LATE CHARLES GIBB. 

The death of Mr. Charles Gibb, B.A., took place 
at Cairo, Egypt, on March 8th. 

Canada has lost another of the pioneers in one of 
her newly-developing products, in the person of Mr. 
Charles Gibb, the well-known horticulturalist, whose 
death occurred on his homeward journey from Cey- 
lon. Mr. Gibb left Montreal last July for Japan, 
where he went to study the fruit trees of the country. 
From thence he went to China, and then to India 
and Ceylon. He was intending to be in Naples dur- 
ing next month. Letters to personal friends here 
never contained allusions regarding ill-health, and 
consequently it is believed that his death was sudden. 
Mr. Gibb was born in this city on July 29th, 1845, 
and was consequently in his 44th year. He received 
his early education at Bishop’s College Grammar 
School, and from thence went through McGill, where 
he received the degree of B.A. in 1865. Hard study 
impaired his eyesight, and he went to Europe for six 
months. About 15 years ago he bought a large farm 
at Abbotsford, Quo., and it is with this farm that he 
has so largely benefited the apple-growing interests 
of this country, and shown what can be done, by 
science and culture, with a Canadian farmstead. In 
1883 he went to Russia to study the apples of that 
country. His researches were most thorough, and to 
him is due the dissemination of the Russian .apple 
in this country. He also introduced many decorative 
trees and shrubs new to the country, among which 
we might mention the Catalpa. He was an extensive 
traveller, and has been all over this continent, includ- 
ing the West India Islands and also Europe, spend- 
ing some time in Norway, Sweden, Russia, also Egypt, 
Syria, China, Japan, India, Australia, Ceylon, etc. ; 
and wherever he went, made a study of the fruit and 
ornamental trees and shrubs, and whenever possible 
he cultivated them on his Abbottsford estate, and was 
most liberal in distributing them ; the only returns 
required was regular reports as to their development 
and produce. All these researches were undertaken 
at his own expense and for the public good. He has 
written several valuable treatises on apple growing 
and small fruits and their culture. He was one of 
the leading spirits of the Montreal Horticultural 
Society, and the founder of the Abbottsford Fruit 
Growers’ Association. Indeed, it is to his efforts that 
that locality is indebted for its prominence as an 
apple growing centre of this province. He also was 
an active member of the Natural History Society, and 
the members of this Society are indebted to him 
for two of the pleasantest outings in their history. 



They were both to Abbottsford. He was also a pro- 
minent member of the Art Association, founded by 
his uncle, the late Beniah Gibb. Mr. Gibb was a 
peculiarly modest man, and his many deeds of charity 
are known only to himself and their objects. He 
believed in the future of Canada, and he labored for 
her advancement in his own particular field with a 
rare devotion. Wherever he went he remembered 
McGill, and was continually sending specimens to 
the Museum, and stocked the College grounds with 
ornamental shrubs and shade trees. His efforts were 
mainly experimental, and he was the originator of 
several different varieties of apples. At the last 
annual meeting of the Graduates’ Society he declined 
nomination for the Presidency. 

Personally, he was liked by all whom he came into 
contact with, and his many friends will feel his loss 
keenly. 



The death of Prof. John Andrew, who, for more 
than thirty years, was teacher of Elocution in the 
High School, occurred in Strong’s Hospital on the 
19th inst. 

Professor Andrew was born in Edinburgh in 1828. 
In 1859, having married in Prince Edward Island, 
he came to Montreal. In 1860 he became a teacher 
in the High School, but fitted himself for the posi- 
tion, which he afterwards occupied so long, by care- 
ful study under Dr. Barber, of McGill. 



It was intended to publish the Examination papers, 
but this has been found impracticable on account of 
lack of space. 

Wtcfcill News. 



Mr. W. E. Gower, M. Can. Soc. C. E., has again 
offered for competition a prize of $25, for the best 
model of original design. 

A meeting of the corporation was held on Saturday, 
29th March. The business transacted was chiefly of 
a routine nature and is referred to elsewhere. 

Mr. J. J. Ross has won the silver medal, and H.M. 
Jacquays the bronze medal in the gymnastic competi- 
tion for the Wickstead medals for physical culture, 
for the present session. 

The oral examinations in the Faculty of Compara- 
tive Medicine, were held by the examiners appointed 
by the Council of Agriculture and Corporation of 
McGill. They were Messrs. J. W. Gadsden, M.R.C., 
Y. S., Philadelphia; Williamson Brydon, Boston; 
J. A. Couture, Quebec ; Dr. James Bell, Montreal ; 
A. W. Harris, Ottawa ; Archibald McCormick, Orms- 
town. 



204 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1890. 



In a future issue it is proposed to deal fully with 
the particulars of Mr. McDonald’s magnificent gift to 
McGill University, which, in the aggregate, will 
amount to nearly half a million dollars. 

If Dr. Sutherland could have but known the en- 
thusiasm that was pent up awaiting his return, ac- 
cording to all psychical laws, his recovery would have 
been very speedy. It is saying a great deal, that the 
Practical Anatomy, under the present demonstrators, 
is still one of McGill’s strongholds. 

Mr. Burland, who has been instrumental in found- 
ing the Graduates’ Society of the Ottawa Valley, 
numbering eighty members, presented to the last 
meeting of corporation a communication conveying 
greetings from that Society to the University. The 
corporation expressed its gratification and interest in 
the movement and its earnest wishes for the prosperity 
of the society. 

On Saturday afternoon the students of Medicine 
held a special meeting which was attended by nearly 
all the men yet in town. The question of the 
University Gazette was brought up, and after 
speeches highly complimentary to the paper, a unani- 
mous and cordial vote of thanks was conveyed to the 
Editors for their management of the College Journal 
during the session of 1889-90. 

It has been resolved to hold the convocations of the 
Faculties ot Law, Arts and Applied Science together, 
the date fixed being April 30th. The Governor 
General has signified his intention of being present, 
and the board of governors also agreed to engage a 
large public hall for the occasion. His Excellency 
will also be invited to attend a public reception to be 
given in the Peter Redpath Museum in the evening. 
The honorary degree of Doctor of Laws will also be 
conferred on His Excellency. 

On Saturday afternoon the honor and prize list was 
formally presented to the students and the public. 
Long before the hour named, 3 o’clock, the seats were 
well filled, and the probable result was discussed with 
affair degree of accuracy. The door was opened with 
due solemnity. The Dean entered, properly robed, and 
after him came the Vice-Dean, Dr. Ross, Dr. Shep- 
herd, Dr. Stewart, Dr. Gardner, and Dr. Girdwood. 
The lists were read and the prize and honour men 
were heartily congratulated by students and profes- 
sors. A very pleasant feature of this year’s proceed- 
ings is the general consensus of opinion that prizes 
and honours have gone where they were best de- 
served. 



THE MEDICAL CONVOCATION. 

The annual public meeting of Convocation for the 
conferring of Degrees in Medicine, and in Compara- 
tive Medicine and Veterinary Science, was held in 
the William Molson Hall, on Tuesday, April 1st, at 
3 p.m. 

The members of Convocation met in the Library 
at half-past two, for the reading of Minutes, and 
closing the ballot for the election of Fellows. And 
while this was in progress the Hall was rapidly fill- 



' ing with students and their friends until, at the 
opening hour, every place was taken and the open 
spaces were packed with a mass of student humanity. 
There was not a single incident to mar the har- 
mony of the occasion, and the whole proceedings 
were attended with an admirable dignity and de- 
corum, broken only by the comments from the rear, 
of a more or less irrelevant nature, that gave point 
and pith to the passing events. 

At three o’clock precisely the procession was 
formed, and made its way up to the platform from 
the library entrance. The following was the order 
to be observed, but it was not strictlv adhered to on 
account of the absence of several of the members : — 

The Visitor ; the President and Chancellor ; the 
remaining Governors, in order of appointment ; the 
Principal and Vice-Chancellor ; the Vice-Principal; 
the remaining Fellows, in order of first appointment; 
the Professors of the College and University, in order 
of appointment; those of Affiliated Colleges, Mem- 
bers of Convocation, in like order; the Secretary, 
Registrar, and Bursar ; the Lecturers, Tutors and 
other instructing officers of the College and Univer- 
sity, members of Convocation, in like order ; those of 
Affiliated Colleges, members of Convocation, in like 
order ; Doctors of Divinity ; Doctors of Laws or of 
Civil Law ; Doctors of Medicine ; Bachelors of Di- 
vinity ; Masters of Arts ; Masters of Engineering and 
Applied Science ; Bachelors of Civil Law ; Bachelors 
of Arts ; Bachelors of Applied Science, and Gradu- 
ates in Civil Engineering. 

The robed procession streamed over the platform 
and occupied seats in the appointed places. Sir 
Donald A. Smith, the Chancellor, presided, and at 
his left was the Principal, Sir William Dawson. 
Around him were the Governors, Mr. John H. R. 
Molson, Mr. W. C. MacDonald, Mr. Samuel Finley, 
Alexander Johnson, L.L.D., Dean of the Faculty of 
Arts ; Dr. Craik, Dean of the Medical Faculty ; and 
Dr. Ross, the Vice-Dean; Prof. Bovey, Dean of the 
Faculty of Applied Science ; N. W. Trenholme, 
Q.C., Dean of the Faculty of Law ; Dr. McEachran, 
Dean of the Faculty of Comparative Medicine ; Dr. 
Stewart, Dr. Shepherd, Dr. Wilkins, Dr. Cameron, 
Dr. Mills, Dr. Girdwood, Dr. Gardner, Dr. Rodger, 
Dr. Grant, Dr. Birkett, Dr. Johns ton, Dr. Finley, Dr. 
Ruttan, Dr. Baker, Dr. McEachran, Rev. Principals 
Mac Vicar, Shaw and Barbour ; Prof. Penhallow, F. 
W. Kelley, Ph. D., Prof. J. Clarke Murray, John 
Dougall, M. A., Prof. C. E. Moyse, Rev* Dr. Cornish, 
Rev. Prof. Scrimgour, Mr. Justice Cross, Rev. Prof. 
Coussirat, Dr. Godsgen, J. W. Brackenridge, B.C.L. ; 
W. Skaife, B.A. Sc.; P. Toewes, M.A. ; E. H. 
Hamilton, B.A. Sc. ; J. A. MacPhail, B.A.; M. W. 
Hopkins, B.A. Sc. 

Rev. Dr. Cornish opened the proceedings with the 
usual form of prayer, and then Dr. Craik, Dean of 
the Medical Faculty, presented his report and said 
that the number of students attending were : — From 
Ontario, 111; Quebec, 71; New Brunswick, 2t> ; 
Nova Scotia, 20 ; Prince Edward Island, 11 ; United 
States, 7 ; Manitoba, 7 ; Newfoundland, 2 ; British 
Columbia, 2; West Indies, 2 ; England, 1, a rather 
cosmopolitan collection. It would be observed that 



1890.] UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 205 



the number this year is greatly in excess of former 
years, as the following statement shows. Dividing 
the period into decades, the Dean showed that sixty 
years ago — in the session of 1829-30 — there were but 
thirty students in attendance ; — 

Students. 

in 1639-40 20 

In 1849-50 44 

In 1859-60 108 

In 1869-70 141 

In 1879-80 166 

In 1889-90 261 

It will be remembered that in ’39 and ’40 the re- 
bellion occurred, and for two or three years the classes 
were closed. Only eight or nine years ago the uni- 
versity had almost reached the limit of its accommoda- 
tion ; the class rooms and laboratories were over- 
crowded and students unable to obtain admission 
were forced to go elsewhere. Then it was that the 
Chancellor came to their aid (cheers), and enabled 
them to further extend their usefulness. The 
Campbell Memorial fund had also enabled them to 
add to their class rooms, laboratori s and equipments. 
They had accordingly endeavored to increase the use- 
ful working of the institution. He felt that their 
efforts had been fully appreciated by the class from 
which their students are drawn. But while con- 
gratulating themselves they must face a feeling of 
anxiety. They had seen one period of stagnation 
owing to overcrowding ; that must not occur again ; 
they could not afford it. They must keep constantly 
advancing, and keep abreast of other institutions who 
are endeavoring to outstrip McGill in the race of 
efficiency in medical teaching Medical teaching is 
not a remunerative employment ; advanced methods 
have to be employed with the forward move of the 
times. The new system is largely, in fact altogether, 
practical. The Dean felt sure that their wants only 
require to be made known to friends in Montreal to 
gain the help necessary to carry on their work as it 
should be carried on. 

Continuing, he said : — The following gentlemen, 
56 in number, have fulfilled all the requirements to 
entitle them to the degree of M.D., C.M., from the 
University. In addition to the Primary subjects 
mentioned, they have passed a satisfactory exami- 
nation, both written and oral, on the following sub- 
jects : — Principles and Practice of Surgery, Theory 
and Practice of Medicine, Obstetrics and Diseases of 
Infancy, Gynaecology, Pharmacology and Therapeu- 
tics, Medical Jurisprudence, Pathology and Hygiene 
— and Clinical Examinations in Medicine, Surgery, 
Ophthalmology, Obstetrics and Gynaecology conducted 
in the wards of the General Hospital and Montreal 
Maternity : — 

G. A. B. Addy, St. John, N.B.; C. A. Ault, Oshkosh, Wis.; 
C. B. Bissett, River Bourgeois, N.S.; E. J. Bowes, Ottawa, Out.; 
E. J. Broderick, B.A., Fredericton, N.B.; C. H. Burritt, B.A., 
Mitchell, Ont.; J. M. Campbell, Longueuil, Que.; J.W. Clarke, 
Tatamagouche, U.S.; P. J. Clune, Warkworth, Wis.; A. H. 
Coleman, Belleville, Ont.; F. G. Corbin, Bedford, N.S.; I. B. 
Curtis, Hartland, N.B. ; T. H. Ellis, Pembroke, Out.; D. J. 
Evans, Montreal, Que.; A. S. Gorrell, Brockville, Ont.; T. J. 
Greene, Appleton, Ont.; H. D. Hamilton, B.A., Montreal, Que.; 
N. M. Harris, Ormstowu, Que.; John Hayes, B.A., Richmond, 
Que.; W. E. Inksetter, Copetown, Out.; A. F. Irwin, Chatham, 



Out.; W. E. Jenkins, Conquered, N.S.; C. P. Jento, Mellville, 
Ohio; D. N. Kee, Fordyce, Ont.; H D. Kemp, Montreal, Que.; 
A. C. Leslie, Grand Forks, Dak.; A. A. Lewin, St. John, N.B. ; 

G. L. Liddell, Cornwall, Ont.; A. G. Morphy, B.A., London, 
Ont.; O. Morris, Pembroke, Out.; E. A. Mulligan, Aylmer, 
Que.; M. W. Murray, Beach wood, Ont.; M. S. Macdonald, 
Scotclitown, Ont.; F. McEown, Winnipeg, Man.; H. H. McKay, 
Pictou, N.S.; R. E. McKechuie, Winnipeg, Man.; G. L. McKee, 
Coaticook, Que.; A. C. McLellan, Indian River, P.E.I.; H. D. 
McManus, B.A., Fredericton, N.B.; G. A. McMillan, St. Agnes 
de Dundee, Que.; C. T. Noble, Sutton, Unt.; C. O’Connor, 
Worcester, Mass.; A. J. Oliver, Cowansville, Que.; H. M. 
Patton, B.A., Winnipeg, Man.; J. T. Reid, Winnipeg, Man.; 
W. llobertson, Chesterfield, Out.; James Ross, Halifax, N.S. ; 

H. R. Ross, Quebec, Que.; W. D. Smith, Plantagenet, Ohio; 
W. J. Teller, Burgoyne, Ohio; F. E. Thompson, Quebec, Que.; 
D. De J. White, Montreal, Que.; W. A. Wilson, Derby, N.B.; 
H. M. Williamson, Guelph, Out.; E. H. Woodruff, B.A., 
St. Catharines, Out.; F. S. Yorston, Truro, N.S. 

The following gentlemen have passed their Primary 
Examination, which comprises the following subjects : 
— Anatomy, Practical Anatomy, Chemistry, Practical 
Chemistry, Physiology, Histology and Botany : — 

G. A. Berwick, J. E. Binmore, G. A. Bowen, B. F. Boyce, 
F. W. A. Brown, D. A. Bruce, H. B. W. Carmichael, C. M. 
Carlaw, J. L Chabot, li. J. Cliipman, A. R. Day, G. H. Dun- 
can, R. T. Glendinning, W. C. R. Graham, H. A. Grant, 

V. Halliday, P. J. Hayes, James Henderson, D. H. Hogg, 
A. F. Irwin, Thos. Jameson, Albert Johnson, F. W. Lang, 
A. F. Langley, A. A. Lewin, A W. Mair, C. F. Martin, H. B. 
Massiah, C. J. Meade, W. F. Meikle, D. T. Mackay, J. E. 
McKenty, R. T. McKenzie, A. I. McKinnon, H. McNally, 
Lamont Paterson, E. D. Phelan, B. E. Robinson, W. Rogers, 
Geo. R. Shirriff, O. W. Sinclair, W. H. Smith, J. A. Stewart, 
T. T. Taylor, J. N. Taylor, M. M. Taplin, A. S. Wade, 

W. E. Walsh, W. G. Walker, H. J. Wasson, H. B. Yates. 

Third Year. 

The following have passed in Pharmacology and 
Therapeutics : — 

W. W. Alexander, R. Bennie, R. A. Bowie, J. E. Brouse, 
W. A. Brown, J. Busby, B. H. Calkin, C. M. Carlaw, J. Clarke, 
J. C. Clemeslia, A. Dewar, W. A. Farwell, R. W. Fletcher, 
J. A. Fulton, R. J. Gibson. E. A. Grafton, W. F. Hamilton, 
J. D. Harrison, W. II. Hattie, J. Heweston, D. B. Holden, 
A. Internoscia, A. F. Irwin, C. I. Kelly, E. J. Keir, E. M. 
Lambert, A. Love, W. Lovering, A. 1. Mader, C. G. Main, 
M. McL. Martin, J. M. Moore, W. S. Morrow, A. E. A. 
McCann, A. A. McCrimmon, G. F. McGauran, J. C. McGuire, 
J. H. McMillan, J. A. MacPliail, J. Neill, E. A. Robertson, 
T. F. Robertson, O. W. Sinclair, C. F. Smith, T. H Smith, 
A. J. Sparling, J. R. Spier, C. A. Tunstall, W. Troy, N. M. 
Waston, R. E. Webster, W. P. Williamson. 

The following have passed in Pathology : — 

W. W. Alexander, R. Bennie, R. A. Bowie, W. A. Brown, 
J. Busby, B. H. Calkin, C. M. Carlaw, J. Clarke, J. C. 
Clemesha, A. Dewar, W. A. Farwell, R. W. Fletcher, R. J. 
Gibson, E. A Grafton, W. F. Hamilton, J. D. Harrison, 
W. H. Hattie, J. Heweston, D. B. Holden, A. Internoscia, 
A. F. Irwin, C. I. Kelly, E. J. Keir, E. M. Lambert, A. Love, 
W. Lovering, A. 1. Mader, C. G. Main, M. McL. Martin, 
J. M. Moore, W. S. Morrow, A. E. A. McCann, A. A. 
McCrimmon, J. C. McGuire, J. H. McMillan, J. A. MacPhail, 
J. Neill, E. A. Robertson, T. F. Robertson, G. Shirriff, O. W. 
Sinclair, C. F. Smith, T. H. Smith, A. J. Sparling, J. R. 
Spier, C. A. Tunstall, W. Troy, N. M. Watson, R. E. Webster, 
W. P. Williamson. 

The following have passed in Medical Jurispru- 
dence : — 

W. W. Alexander, R. Bennie, R. A. Bowie, J. E. Brouse, 
W. A. Brown J. Busby, B. H. Calkin, C. M. Carlaw, 
J. Clarke, J. C. Clemesha, A. Dewar, W. A. Farwell, R. W. 
Fletcher, J. A. Fulton, R. J. Gibson, E A. Grafton, W. F. 
Hamilton, J. D. Harrison, W. H. Hattie, J. Heweston, D B. 



206 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



1890 .] 



Holden, A. Intemoscia, A. F. Irwin, C. I. Kelly, E. J. Keir, 
E. M. Lambert, A. Love, W. Lovering, A. I. Mader, C. G. 
Main, M. McL. Martin, J. M. Moore, 0. Morris, W. S. 
Morrow, H. H. Mackay, E. A. McCann, A. A. McCrimmon, 
G. F. McGauran, J. C. McGuire, J. H. McMillan, J. A. Mac- 
Pliail, J. Neill, S. Richards, E. A. Robertson, T. F. Robertson. 
G. R. ShirrilF, 0. W. Sinclair, C. F. Smith, T. H. Smith, 
A. J. Sparling, J. R. Spier, C. A. Tunstall, W. Troy, N. M. 
Watson, R. E. Webster, W. P. Williamson. 



First Year. 



The following have passed in Histology : — 

E. D. Aylen, H. H. Barrett, H. W. Blunt, W. E. Bostwick, 
J. A. Brown, J. D. Cameron, Robt. Campbell, R. W. Carrall, 
M. A. Cooper, W. E. Deeks, G. F. Dewar, A. T. Dewar, Ed. 
DuVernet, G. W. Fleming, J. A. Fulton, C. W. Girdlestone, 
H. N. Goff, F. B. Gunter, Mortimer Haight, S. W. Hewetson, 
G. L. Hume, A. Intemoscia, W. H. Jamieson, W. 0. Lambly, 
J. W. Lawrence, J. T. Lewis, W. Lindsay, H. A. Livingstone, 
C. H. Masten, S. R. McKenzie, A. D. McArthur, J. D. 
McIntyre, R. B. MacKay, D. McLennan, K. McLennan, 
Wallace McMillan, R. F. McMorine, C. L. Ogden, W. Pat- 
terson, B. E. Robinson, R. F. Rorke, J.W. Scane, E. J. Semple, 
J. W. A. Seguin, G. F. Shaw, 0. W. Sinclair, W. H. Smith, 
G. A. Trenholme, A. S. Wade, J. L. Walker, T. N. Walsh, 
Robt. Wilson, R. D. Wilson, C. A. Yeanvood, W. E. Young. 

The following have passed in Botany : — 

N. Anderson, E. D. Aylen, H. H. Barrett, W. E. Bostwick, 

J. A. Brown, J. D. Cameron, Robt. Campbell, R. W. Carroll, 
M. A. Cooper, G. F. Dewar, A. T. Dewar, Ed. DuVernet, 
A. S. Esty, F. M. Ferron, G. W. Fleming, M. Haight, S. W. 
Hewetson, R. W. Jakes, W. H. Jamieson, A. Johnston, W. 0. 
Lambly, J. W. Lawrence, J. T. Lewis, Wm. Lindsay, H. A. 
Livingstone, C. H. Masten, R. Mathieson, W. C. Mills, A. D. 
MacArthur, J. D. MacIntyre, R. B. MacKay, J. L. MacKenzie, 

K. McLennan, Wallace McMillan, R. F. McMorine, G. W. 
Parker, Wm. Patterson, E. McG. Quirk, F. W. Read, D. A. 
Rodger, R. F. Rorke, H. J. Robinson, J. H. Scammel], J. W. 
Scane, J. S. Seaton, E. J. Semple, J . W. A. Seguin, Thos. P. 
Shaw, G. F. Shaw, 0. W. Sinclair, W. H. Scott, J. E. c! 
Tomkins, G. A. Trenholme, J. L. Walker, Robt. Wilson, R. 1)! 
Wilson, W. E. Young, C. A. Yearwood. 

The Holmes Gold Medal, for the best Examination in all the 
Branches comprised in the Medical Curriculum, is awarded to 
Robert Edward McKechnie, of Winnipeg, Manitoba. 

The Prize for the best examination in the Final Branches is 
divided equally between Edward John Bowes, of Ottawa, Out. 
and Michael William Murray, of Beachwood, Ont. 

The Clemesha Prize in Clinical Therapeutics, is awarded to 
Afred Henry Coleman, Belleville, Ont. 

Tlie Prize for the best examination in the Primary Branches 
is divided equally between James Henderson, of Wark worth’ 
Ont., and Thomas Jameson, of Buffalo, N.Y. 

The Sutherland Gold Medal is awarded to Thomas Jameson 
Buffalo, N.Y. * 

The following arranged in order of merit, deserve honorable 
mention : — 



In the Primary Branches.— J. L. Chabot, A. R. Dav 
H. B. W. Massiah, C. F. Martin, H. J. Wasson, P. J Haves’ 
B. F. Boyce, R. J. Chipman, F. W. Lang. Y ’ 

In the Final Branches.— W. D. Smith, W. E. Inksetter 
— Yorston, A. F. Irwin, A. H. Coleman, John Hayes E j’ 
Broderick, C. T. Noble, W. A. Wilson, D. J. Evans. 
Professors’ and Demonstrators’ Prizes : — 



Botany, Robt. Wilson, Montreal. 

Senior Anatomy, James Henderson, Warkworth 

Junior “ J. W. Scane. 



Only the Pass Examinations are published, no 
account being made of the Sessional. 

CAPPING THE GRADUATES. 



Dr. Stewart, the Registrar, then administered the 
usual form of affirmation to the Candidates as they 
stood around the dais with uplifted hands. 



Sponsia Academica. 

In Facultate Medicina? Universitatis. 

Ego, A B , Doctoratus in Arte Medica, titulo jam 

donandus, sancto coram Deo cordium scrutatore, spondeo me 
in omnibus grati animi officiis erga hanc Universitatem, ad ex- 
tremum vitoe halitum, perseveraturum ; turn porro artem medi- 
cam caute, caste, et probe exercitaturum ; et quoad in me est, 
omnia ad segrotorum corpomm salutem conducentia, cum fide 
procuraturum ; quae denique, inter medendum, visa vel audita 
silere conveniat, non sine gravi causa vulgaturum. Ita praesens 
milii spondenti adsit Numen. 

The following is a free but fairly accurate trans- 
lation : — 

Academic Oath. 

In the Medical Faculty of the University. 

I, A B Now about to be awarded the degree of Doctor 

of Medicine, do promise in the presence of God, the holy one, 
the searcher of hearts ; that I will continue steadfast, so long as 
I live, in all the duties pertaining to a mind well disposed to- 
ward this University, and furthermore, I promise that I will 
henceforward practice the Art of Medicine carefully, honorably, 
and justly, and as far as in me lies, will strive faithfully to take 
every means that might conduce to the welfare of the sick. 
And finally, that I will not divulge, without grave cause, any- 
thing that has been seen or heard in the practice of my pro- 
fession about which it is right to remain silent. This I promise, 
so help me God. 

Three of the graduates, not having attained their 
majority, were unable to receive their degrees, and 
two who were in a like condition the previous year, 
now received their parchments. 

THE VALEDICTORY. 

Dr. E. J. Bowes was then called on to deliver the 
Valedictory on behalf of the Graduating Class of 
1890. 

Mr. Chancellor, &c. 

In attempting to represent the graduating class of *90, I am 
conscious that whatever I may say will but poorly portray the 
sentiments of the majority on such an occasion as this. My 
only hope is that in expressing my own feelings, the compan- 
ionship of four years will enable me to touch a chord of sym- 
pathy which will find a vibration in their hearts. 

I must also crave indulgence for repeating what must to 
many present appear old and threadbare observations, hoping 
that they will remember that they once occupied similar pos- 
itions and experienced the same feelings which animate us 
to-day. & 

Our only reasons for inflicting an address upon you is our 
desire to conform to an old and honored custom, and to ex- 
press the pleasure which it gives us to see so many of our 
friends here to-day, and to thank them for tlieii kindly good 
will towards us as manifested by their too generous applause. 

Even our staid and solemn professors have put on a robe of 
gladness - and I can scarcely realize that these smiling persons, 
who, taking us by the hands to-day so warmly welcome us 
into our new profession, can be the same body of men who gave 
us such an arctic reception as we tottered with ataxic gait into 
our late clinical examinations. 

Can it be that joy is contagious ? or is it that, now the worry 
and drudgery of the session being over, they rejoice^to think that 
they are at liberty to enjoy a well merited repose ? or is their 
happiness due to the pleasure which they feel in turning out 
such a constellation ol brilliancy as the present graduating 

On behalf of the graduating class I accept the latter as the 
explanation. 

When, four years ago, attracted from all parts of the Domin- 
ion by the renown of old McGill, we stood at her portals and 
knocked for admission, we all looked forward with longing and 
expectancy to the present hour. 

Since then all our energies and strength have been put forth 
to leach this goal. Now that the day has arrived, we natur- 



1890.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



207 



ally take a retrospective glance and recall our entrance into 
old McGill and our official reception by that self important, 
mystery-loving, but kind hearted old official, the Janitor, and 
liow he promised to guide our feeble footsteps through the 
tangled paths of a medical course. 

It is generally sup|>osed that during his college days the 
student undergoes a process of reversion and becomes converted 
into a semi-barbarous condition, only to be restored again to 
his right mind, and raised from the oblivion of social ostra- 
cism by the present ceremony. 

But I think that a more intimate acquaintance will convince 
even the most sceptical that, taken as a whole, they are a body 
of men who, lor earnestness of purpose, industry and moral 
character, will compare more than favorably with any other 
body of men of equal numbers. 

That there should be some exceptions is but natural, but 
under the argus eye of the watchdog of the primary years and 
the potent influence of daily roll calls, even the most reckless 
soon learn that it is to their advantage to settle down to good 
honest work. 

With reference to our opinions of ourselves as Freshmen — 
we shall never forget how rapidly any self conceit we may have 
had evaporated, under the contumelious smile and patronizing 
air of the bumptious and pachydermed sophomore. 

For six long months it seemed to be their endeavour to 
make us realize on all occasions, that we were so fresh and 
verdant “that the very grass turned green with envy” as we 
passed. 

And by the irony of fate even our professors appeared to be 
leagued against us — else why did the professor of Histology so 
pointedly direct our attention to the study of that particular 
histological element which covers the proverbial cheek of the 
Freshmen. 

But the wheel of time revolves rapidly and it soon became 
our turn to occupy the front seats in the lecture room. And now 
how well we were avenged for all the sneers and insults to 
which we had previously been subjected when, upon one event- 
ful day we arose in our might and “smote the Philistines hip 
and thigh” as they attempted to force what was facetiously 
termed by one of our professors “The Pass of Therm opylse.” 

Often times will we recall those pleasant moments before the 
lectures when 100 strong young voices poured out the music 
of their souls in the old college songs, which only died away 
in the tumultuous and long continued applause which greeted 
the entrance of our worthy professor of physiology. 

Who will ever forget the magnetic influence which one of 
our songs, beseeching a dilatory sister to hasten her footsteps, had 
upon a highly sensitive and volatile nature ? or the profound 
impressions made upon our plastic minds by the physiological 
abnormalities which are occasionally found in such creatures as 
the rabbit ? 

Long upon the tablets of our memories will remain the im- 
pressions made by Dr. Mills as he opened up to our youthful 
visions the wonders and potentialities of new fields of thought, 
stimulating us on to noble and lofty ideals, and instilling into 
us some of that enthusiasm which enabled him to unravel with 
such power and eloquence the principles of one of the most 
interesting branches of the medical science. 

The terse and forcible delivery of the lecturer in Anatomy al 
ways commanded our undivided attention, and to Dr. Shepherd 
we shall ever feel indebted for having given us what we believe 
to be one of the ablest and most complete courses of lectures 
ever delivered on this continent. 

In the dissecting room we had opportunities of acquiring a 
practical knowledge of anatomy, thus laying a solid foundation 
upon which to erect the superstructure of the final branches. 
Under the supervision of Dr. MacDonnell that department was 
always free from any of the objectionable features vhich are 
sometimes supposed to be associated with it. 

The popularity of the assistant demonstrator of Anatomy is 
proverbial, and justly so, for if it were not for Dr. Sutherland’s 
“tips” many of us would not have been here to-day, but would 
have foundered long ago in the primary examinations. 

Although two years have passed away we still remember the 
lively satisfaction we felt when, the primaries being over, we 
were permitted to enter upon the study of the branches of the 
Medical Science, the application of whose principles was to be 
our life work. 



It was now our privilege to come into relation for the first time 
with“The Grand Old Man” of the Medical Faculty, Dr. Fenwick. 
Who will ever forget him, as he stood amongst his specimens 
and detailed the history of fractures of 40 years ago? nor as 
surgeons will we soon forget the benefits to be derived from a 
“good free incision.” But above all the remembrance of his 
manly words, pregnant with sentiments which appealed to our 
better natures and called into life feelings which open up a fel- 
lowship amongst men, will ever remain as one of the brightest 
pictures of our college course. 

We were also fortunate in having as professors of Obstetrics 
and Gynaecology, gentlemen whose ability has placed them 
in the foremost rank of their profession. 

Any words of mine would do but poor justice to the worth of 
a gentleman whose skill is instrumental in attracting patients 
from all parts of the Dominion, or to express the admiration we 
feel for one whose profound knowledge of the subject enables 
him to speak in eloquent language for two years upon the life 
history of unborn humanity. 

In the Montreal General Hospital, under the guidance of 
learned physicians and skilful surgeons, we have had opportuni- 
ties of obtaining a practical knowledge of our profession - oppor- 
tunities unsurpassed by anyother medical students in the world. 

There also we have obtained an insight into what was to be 
our future mission amongst men. In studying disease and ob- 
serving its effects upon poor suffering humanity, I trust we 
have imbibed the feelings which inspired the poet to say that 
“the drying of a single tear has more of honest fame, than shed- 
ding seas of gore.” 

Our relations with each other as students have always been 
of the most cordial nature, except, perhaps, during election 
times, when the warm pulsations of a vigorous nature some- 
times prompted some of our youthful orators to indulge in forc- 
ible and eloquent Phillipics. 

In our dealings with our sister faculties, owing to stress of 
work we have not opportunities of cultivating that friendship, 
which, we are sure, would have been conducive to our mutual 
benefit. About our only chance of meeting them was upon 
the College Campus during the annual sports, when we usually 
succeeded in capturing most of the events. 

Nor is this to be wondered at, when we find amongst our 
students the names of such world-renowned athletes as that of 
Boss MacKenzie, McLellan, O’Connor, Mulligan and Dempsey. 
And in this connection we feel that it is a matter ot regret that 
greater opportunities are not afforded our students, of develop- 
ing their physical as well as intellectual powers. This can 
only be effected when both our professors and students realize 
the truth of the old saying “Mens sana in corpore sano.” 

Let us now turn our attention to the intellectual contests, the 
results of which are of so much interest and importance to the 
students. Some of us have come out of them covered with 
honors after a brilliant college career marked by a series of 
consecutive victories. But we must remember that it is not 
the staunchest in the field who always wins the fight, nor is a 
man’s standing at an examination to be taken as a sign manu- 
al of his ability. 

Owing to the shortness of our course we have but little more 
than time to collect a large amount of medical facts, which we 
hope to classify and assimilate during the period of leisure and 
repose, which the considerate public always grants to the young 
physician. 

To be successful at an examination a man must possess a 
certain amount of strategy and generalship, by which he is 
enabled to marshall all his facts into the front rank of his 
memory upon the day of examination 

Again, it is a well known fact that all professors do not place 
the same valuation upon an answer, and fortunate is the stud- 
ent who, having made a physiological study of his professor, is 
thus enabled to cater to his peculiar appetite. 

We have been informed by our professors that we are without 
doubt the best class which has ever had the honor of graduat- 
ing from McGill. 

But we cannot be measured by the achievements of those 
who have preceded us, for, it is conceded that many a person 
who would be rejected to-day, would in all probability have 
taken honors during the college days of our professors. 

What a fortunate thing it is for them that their college days 
were not cast in these times. 



208 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1890. 



Such being the case, I have often wondered how they could 
conscientiously reject any one who presents himself for examina- 
tion. 

Perhaps it may be attributed to the fact that our Profes- 
sorial Staff is, to a considerable extent, imbued with the prin- 
ciples of Darwinism, and they feel that in order to carry out 
those principles it is necessary to lop off a few links of the 
caudal extremity of each succeeding class. 

If the theory of evolution be true, I suppose that in the 
course of time, the greater part of our physical beings will be 
dispensed with, and that men will gradually get shorter and 
shorter, till in the economy of nature he is almost reduced to a 
single head. 

Looking at events in the light of evolution we should not, 
therefore, be surprised that so many small men played such 
large parts in the history of the world, or, to come nearer home, 
to see a small man at the head of our graduating class to-day. 

We have briefly alluded to the events of the past ; concerning 
the future it is difficult to speak with any degree of certainty. 
But if the records of the past can be taken as an index of the 
future, we have amongst our number some whose names will 
yet be inscribed amongst those of McGill's most honored sons. 

In the region of Opthalmology already the renown of one of 
our class has been heralded to the eastern confines of our 
Dominion. 

And recalling the magnificent efforts of another in descriptive 
anatomy, with special regard to that part to which are attach- 
ed the wings of immortal forms, we confidently await the further 
development of his scapulae and his soaring aloft to the regions 
of anatomical fame, there to be numbered with a Grey, a 
Heath and a Holden. 

Although we cannot all hope to reach such pinnacles of fame, 
we may yet reasonably expect to achieve the same degree of 
success which has heretofore marked the efforts of our graduates. 

Whatever the measure of prosperity it may be our future lot to 
enjoy, we shall ever remember that it is due in no small degree 
to the untiring efforts of our professors to instil into our minds 
some of that knowledge and love of science, which has brought 
so much honor to themselves and to their Alma Maier. 

And in bidding them farewell I can pay no higher tribute to 
their worth, or express better wishes for the welfare of my 
Alma Mater, than to hope that they may long be spared to 
preside over her Council Boards. 

To our fellow students whom we leave behind, we also ex- 
tend our hearty good will. 

We do not purpose to inflict upon you our gratuitous and un- 
asked for advice. We only trust that you will ever work har- 
moniously together for the common welfare of yourselves and 
your university. By so doing you will, upon reaching your 
final year, be able to look back upon your college career with the 
same satisfaction with which we do to-day. 

Now as we go forth into the busy world, let us pause a 
moment and take a last fond look at our dear old Alma Mater, 
for we would indeed be unworthy of the name she gives us, if 
passing from her portals we cast no longing, lingering look on 
her whose loving care has brought us to this hour and made us 
all we are. 

It is needless for me to sing her praises, her reputation and 
renown have already spread to every quarter of the globe where 
the English tongue is spoken. 

Then her graduates by their skill have been erecting a monu- 
ment to her fame. 

The growth of her reputation has been constant and progres- 
sive, not instantaneous, and due to the electric flash of one 
bright genius, who illumined her horizon for a few short 
moments and then passed away to leave her in a deeper gloom. 

Her light shines with a constant and ever increasing bright- 
ness, kept aglow by the succeeding generations of her children. 
And whilst she has been giving her sons to other universities 
to build up their strength, her's is the product of her own con- 
ception, and all her professorial chairs are filled by her own 
graduates. 

When in the natural course of events, one of her honored 
guides passes away to seek the rest and reward of a life of cease- 
less energy and priceless worth, she can always find one of her 
graduates, even at considerable personal sacrifice, ever ready 
and willing to step into the breach, take up the work and bear 
her banner to the achievement of still greater renown. 



Farewell, our d<ar old Alma Mater, you have been a kind and 
generous foster mother to us. You have taken us into your 
bosom and having nourished us with your own warm blood, you 
now r , with your last benediction, send us forth into the world 
to fulfil one of the noblest duties of men. 

Farewell — ever shall our hearts turn to thee with gratitude 
and fondest remembrance ; ever shall thy precepts be engraven 
upon them and rule our lives, and wheresoever we shall drift 
on the flood of destiny, may our every deed and motive re- 
dound to thy honor, our dear old Alma Mater . 

Dr. J. C. Cameron then delivered the reply for the 
Faculty. 

Prof. Cameron’s Address. 

It is the time honored custom in this University for the 
Faculty to select one of their number to address a few words, in 
their behalf, to the graduating class. First, then, we congra- 
tulate you most heartily upon the successful completion of 
your collegiate course. Four long years of patient, steady work, 
culminate to-day in your Doctor’s degree The parchment you 
have just received testifies that you have attained the standard 
laid down by the University, have fulfilled all her requirements, 
and are fit and proper persons to practice medicine — while you 
on your part, have solemnly sworn to practice your profession 
carefully, honestly and uprightly. The diploma you now hold 
is one of which you may well be proud, for in whatsoever part 
of the civilized world your lot may be cast, you will find that 
the reputation of your Alma Mater has preceded you, and will 
bespeak for you the confidence of the public and the respect of 
your confreres. (Hear, hear). You will never have cause to be 
ashamed of your Alma Mater ; look well that you never give 
her cause to be ashamed of you. To-day is with you a red 
letter day, marking a great epoch in your iives. For four long 
years you have been toiling up the hill, with eyes fixed upon 
graduation day, as the great final goal of your efforts. Other 
realities of life have been obscured or overshadowed by the intense 
reality of this — your degree has been your summuin honum 9 
and every nerve has been strained to win it. To-day the degree is 
yours ; you have climbed the hill, reached the goal, but as 
you look around, lo ! the realities, responsibilities, possibilities 
of life open out before you— your prospective is wholly changed, 
your life-climb has but begun. You were students before, you 
must be students still — you worked hard before, you must 
work harder still. Toil, the birthright of mankind, must still 
be yours, if you are not to be laggards in the race. Under the 
careful guidance and supervision of your teachers, the way has 
been marked out for you, its roughness smoothed, your falter- 
ing steps steadied. Now you are cut loose you must choose 
your own road and make your own pace ; how far you will 
manage to push along will depend very much upon the energy, 
perseverance and singleness of purpose you henceforth display. 

In welcoming you to our ranks we would remind you that our 
profession is one of intrinsic nobility and dignity. In it science 
and charity, knowledge and sympathy, skill and pity, go hand 
in hand, ministering to the sorrows and sufferings of human 
kind. Its annals teem with deeds of heroism, self-sacrifice and 
devotion. When pestilence stalks the earth, when panic and 
fear seize upon the people, the physician will be found at the 
post of danger, firm, fearless and faithful. When human pity 
may wipe away a tear, human skill ease a pain or human 
sympathy comfort and console, there too will he be found. Of 
all the brave and gallant deeds by land or sea, none are more 
truly great and noble than those of men who, amidst the 
horrors of pestilence, in the privacy of daily life, without the 
stimulus of excitement, publicity or hope of reward, have 
toiled without repose to assuage the nursing of the sick and 
dying, and at last without a murmur have laid down their lives 
for their fellow men. 

Such is our profession ; would you prove yourselves worthy of 
it, you must begin well, and continue as you begin. 

DUTIES TO YOURSELVES. 

Your character must ever be above reproach. Honor, 
uprightness and integrity must be the very warp of your lives’ 
Then to the best of your ability you must keep well abreast of 
the times and strive always to be accomplished, educated 
physicians. Though now, no doubt, you know everything 



1890.] 



university gazp;tte. 



209 



about medujmc that is worth knowing, you cannot maintain 
that happy state of affairs without constant diligent study. 
Careful observation is the surest road to success. Train eye, 
ear, and touch ; investigate every case thoroughly and system- 
atically ; observe everything, considering nothing too trivial or 
minute. Study the laws ot cause and effect and apply them in 
your daily practice ; consider each case as a problem you are 
called upon to solve. Study out carefully and estimate at its 
proper value the personal factor ; aim to treat your patient, not 
his disease, and you will find the practice of medicine an 
absorbing, fascinating study, a never failing source of pleasure 
and gratification, the best antidote to jealousy, irritation and 
querulous discontent. I pray you, do not allow yourselves to 
degenerate into the routine practitioner. Such a man cares 
very little for principles or deductions therefrom— the prescrip- 
tion is his great stand by- and with a pocketful of them he is 
armed for any emergency. He poses as a practical man, no 
theory or nonsense about him. While you study the cases which 
come under your care, do not fail to acquaint yourselves with 
the results and opinions of others. Attend medical societies 
and conventions, for there you come in contact with fellow- 
workers of riper experience, and mutual benefit is derived from 
criticising and being criticised. Read diligently . Read the 
current journals, they give you the latest news from the front ; 
the pioneers of thought, the original workers and investigators 
ate there, like pickets and skirmishers, spying out the land. At 
all events, it is news from the front, of absorbing interest, 
though subject to much alteration aud correction, and not 
always trustworthy. In the text-books you find the solid 
ground that has been won. 

DUTIES TO PATIENTS. 

In the practice of your profession you have certain well 
defined duties to your patients —there is, in fact, an implied 
contract between you. They, on their part, place confidence in 
you, and trust you. In your hands are placed, sometimes, health 
and happiness, honor and reputa ion, the issues of life and 
death. You, on your part, in accepting such grave responsi- 
bilities, are bound to possess and maintain a competent know- 
ledge of your profession, to devote due care and attention to 
your patients and exercise your best skill. In your professional 
relations, you will be admitted into the privacy of the family 
circle ; in sickness the society mask is off and you will see poor 
humanity in all its weakness. You will know the shadows that 
darken many a home, the hidden sorrows that embitter many 
a life ; weighty secrets, important confidences may be committed 
to your care. And thus not only the lives, but often the 
prospects and fortunes of individuals, the peace, honor and 
happiness of families, and even the welfare of the community 
may rest in your hands. Upon your prudence and caution 
great interests may hang : beware how you betray them. 
Remember, too, that the personal factor enters very largely into 
the problem of success. By your patients you are valued not 
only for your medical skill, but also, for the refreshing or 
soothing influence of your own personality — a gentle manner, a 
gentle voice and sympathy are potent factors in the cure. While 
you strive to be skilful in your profession, do not forget that 
when human skill is of no more avail, sympathy and kindness 
may temper a blow you cannot ward off, or lighten a sorrow 
you cannot avert. Be honorable, honest, upright ; a sym- 
pathetic listener, a wise counsellor but a gossip 9 a talebearer — 
never. Strive to be a ray of sunshine in every home ; let the 
sick brighten at your entrance ; let the little ones long for 
your visits ; then when your life work is drawing to a close, 
when you are old and gray, men and women grown, whom you 
have watched and tended from infancy, will love and revere 
you and cherish your memory in the tenderest esteem. 

DUTIES TO CONFRERES. 

When you begin the practice of your profession, you will be 
at once thrown into contact and competition with other medical 
men. Remember, you are fellow-workers ; let no unseemly ri- 
valry or jealousy mar your friendly relations. Follow strictly one 
code of ethics, for it is nothing more or less than a practical appli- 
cation to medical matters of the golden rule in its negative form — 
Do not unto others that which you would not have them do unto 
you. Be modest in your demeanor, especially to older men — 
perhaps they may not be as well up as yourselves in the latest 



teachings of the schools, but from long personal observation and 
experience, they have gathered rich stores of knowledge which 
no mere book lore can give, and which you must work many 
yearn to acquire. Do not forget that there is often room for 
honest difference of opinion. We sometimes hear it said that 
doctors differ. Of course they differ -and so do all men who 
are not mere machines ; men who reflect weigh evidence, 
balance probabilities and use their own judgment and common 
sense. The clergy differ, lawyers and judges differ, philosophers, 
men of science, politicians, political economists, thoughtful 
men everywhere differ — and so do doctors. Not only is there 
room for honest difference of opinion, there is room also for 
honest difference in treatment. You wish to go from McGill 
College to the Post Office ; you have your choice of many 
different ways, e tell of which will eventually bring you to your 
destination. So you will find in practice, the s<me end may 
be accomplished in many different ways, the ultimate choice of 
method being largely a question of taste and tact on the part 
of the practitioner. 

DUTIES TO SCIENCE. 

Besides our more immediate duties to our patients, there are 
other indirect obligations none the less binding. From the 
past we inherit the accumulated knowledge and experience of 
ages ; it is incumbent upon us not only to transmit this goodly 
inheritance unimpaired but also to contribute all we can to 
increase the store. Science entrusts us with various talents ; 
in return she demands from us a profitable service. The best 
men in the profession everywhere consider it one of their first 
duties to record for the benefit of the profession, their cases, 
methods and results. But some of you may say, it is all very 
well for the city men, with their great hospital and other advan- 
tages, to do original work and advance the cause of science, but 
what can be expected from a poor country practitioner, isolated 
from converse with his confreres, with limited experience, few 
books, scanty means and opportunities all too few. No man’s 
lot is so humble that he cannot cherish the scientific spirit. 
Your books may be few, but the great book of nature lies ever 
open ; read thoroughly the few lines or chapters spread before 
you, and by mere concentration of attention you may discover 
therein a hidden meaning, undetected by those who perforce 
must skim from page to page. The country practitioner has 
one great advantage over his city confrere, he has time to think. 
The rush and whirl of city life is fatal to steady fruitful 
thought, and we find that many of the brightest discoveries of 
scientific medicine, are the contribution of quiet, thoughtful 
men, with limited opportunities, but imbued with the scientific 
spirit. You are beginning your career in a time of unusual 
scientific activity ; chemistry, experimental physiology, patho- 
logy, and pharmacology are rapidly changing the aspect of 
practical medicine. Sanitary science and preventive medicine 
offer specially rich fields for original research. The problems 
are legion and demand for their solution, carefulness of obser- 
vation, accuracy of thought and soundness of judgment. Every 
one of you can do something. Above all, have faith in your- 
selves, have faith in your art. Let a firm abiding faith be the 
mainspring of your practice. No human theory is perfect — 
science and art are progressing, improving. Be ready to aban- 
don the old when proved false, to accept the new when proved 
true. But do not throw away the faith you have, until you are 
sure of another to take its place. An imperfect, defective faith 
is far better than no faith at all. It is, after all, very easy to 
pose as a sceptic or iconoclast ; to sneer and rail at prevailing 
beliefs and practice ; to profess disbelief in the efficacy of drugs, 
and the possibilities of nature, science and art. But such a 
mental attitude betokens weakness, not strength — conceit, not 
knowledge. I beseech you do not join the ranks of the medical 
nihilists ; the man without faith in science, in his art, or him- 
self, is like a ship without ballast or rudder. 

DUTIES TO THE UNIVERSITY. 

Now finally, you have some duties to the University. 
Hitherto you have been students of medicine, your chief allegiance 
has been to your own professors. To-day your Alma Mater 
enrolls you among her sons, and sends you forth into the world, 
bearing her name. In all her departments, she has claims upon 
your life long interest and sympathy. While her reputation is 
in a manner your reputation, and her success your success, do 



210 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



1890.] 



not forget that in like manner your reputation is her reputation 1 
and your success her success. Strive to be worthy of her — 
guard well the charge this day entrusted to your care. According 
to an ancient Jewish legend, the patriarch Abraham wore upon 
his breast a jewel, whose light raised those which were bowed 
down, and he aled those which were sick. And when he died, 
the jewel was set in the heavens, where it still shines among 
the stars. May the badge conferred on you to-day be as mighty 
as the patriarch’s jewel of old, and if you guard it untarnished 
to the very end, your names will shine forever among those 
starry hosts to whom the eyes of humanity ever turn with ad- 
miration, gratitude and love. Go forth, graduating class of ’90, 
bearing aloft as your banner the motto “ Excelsior/* everonward 
and upward, and may success attend your efforts. In the name 
of your professors, in the name of the University, Godspeed and 
fare you well. 

COMPARATIVE MEDICINE. 

As a preliminary to the exercises of the Faculty 
of Comparative Medicine, the degree of D.V.S. was 
conferred upon Dr. McEachran, the Dean. He then 
submitted his report, as follows, giving the Prize, 
Honours, and Pass List : — 

First prize and medal, the gift of the Council of Agriculture, 
awarded to R. N. Walsh, Huntingdon, Que., fur best exami- 
nations in all branches during three years. 

Practice of Medicine and Surgery.— 1st, L. E. Will- 
young ; 2nd, J. F. Scott. 

Veterinary Obstetrics.— 1st, R. N. Walsh: 2nd, L. E. 
Willy oung. 

Anatomy.— 1st, J. F. Scott; 2nd, L. E. Willyoung. 
Chemistry. — 1st, Twombley. 

Physiology. -1st, G. Macauley. 

Materia Medica. — 1st, Twombley ; 2nd, Macauley. 
Botany.— 1st, J. Moffat. 

Botany.— First Year.— Moffatt (J. W.), Plaskett, Dyer, 
Wells, Perly, Moffatt (S. J.), Seale, Lofgren, Lee, Gangloff, 
Barton, Dunton, MacDougall, Robertson. 

Histology. — First Year. — First-class Honors. — Twombley, 
J. A. Moffatt, Plaskett. 

Second-class. — Robertson and Dyer. 

Third-class. — Bolger, Gangloff, MacDougall, McDonald, 
Rathbone, Comstock, Lee, S. J. Moffatt, McNaughton, Robb. 
Pote, Seale, and Wells. 

Physiology. — Second Year. — First-class, over 75 per cent — 
Macauley and Twombley. 

Second-class, over 66 per cent — Hayman. 

Third-class— McCrank, McDonald, Sturrock, Comstock, St. 
Louis, Cannon, Gorham, Ramsay, Townsend, Watson, D. M. 
McDonald, Higginson, Miller, and Simpson. 

Chemistry.— Second Year.— Twombley, McCrank, Com- 
stock, Sturrock, St. Louis and Crossman, Simpson, Watson, 
Cannon, T. B. McDonald, Townsend, and Macauley. 

Materia Medica.— Second Year.— Honors.— Twombley, 
Macauley, Sturrock Higginson D. McDonald, R. A. Ramsay] 
Simpson, J. B. McDonald, Watson, McCrank, Comstock. 

Pass — Townsend, McNaughton, Cannon, Dirnton, Hender- 
son, Gorham, Miller, St. Louis. 

Practice of Medicine and Surgery. — Final Year. 

Willyoung, Scott, Scanlan, McGlue, Walsh, Hayman, Dar- 
ling, Crossman. 



THE VETERINARY VALEDICTORY. 

Mr. Scanlan then read the Valedictory for the 
graduates in Comparative Medicine : — 

Mr. Chancellor, etc., — My first words to-day shall be those 
of joy and gladness. In the name of the Faculty of Compara- 
tive Medicine, I invite you all, most cordially, to join in cele- 
brating its first birthday, and in offering to Dear Old Mother 
McGill our heartiest congratulations. 

This day upon which we, as students of Comparative Medi- 
cine, appear here for the first time— this day, I say, marks the 
dawn of a new era for our institution. 

The heretofore Montreal Veterinary College, after incessant 
hard work, and conscientious labor, has succeeded in rendering 
its merits so conspicuous that it has drawn to itself the atten- 
tion of the Professors of McGill University— lias earned their 
approbation, and interested them in its career. It is to these 
gentlemen that our Faculty now owes its present enviable posi- 
tion ; and were any pleading necessary to establish its merit 
and its worth, we would only say that men of their knowledge 
paid it, perhaps, the greatest compliment within their reach in 
placing it among the Faculties of this Great University. 

In all great movements there is always a leader to whose 
energy, and to whose skill, the credit of success must in greater 
part be given ; we would offer, in an especial manner, the ex- 
pression of our gratitude to one who has ever been the leading 
spirit of this enterprise, and who has added one more laurel 
to the wreath he has been entwining since the day he first 
acquired the title of Principal of McGill— Sir William Daw- 
son 

When we entered our College, three years ago we scarcely 
hoped that we should be the first to be honoured with a Uni- 
versity degree. Time will, we think, never efface the pleasant 
recollections of this day. When this College was founded, some 
twenty-four years ago, it had as its sole patron Dr. McEachran, 
to our minds the most earnest and zealous member of the pro- 
fession. At the beginning our number was small, and to-day 
such is still the case. 

Let me say, this redounds all the more to the credit of our 
institution, which has ever remained faithful to the good prin- 
ciples she upheld at her birth, and that if, in point of num- 
ber, her class was and is still small, yet she can replace quan- 
tity by quality, and point with pride to the fact that her 
graduates now occupy the most important positions in what- 
ever country they may be, and reflect credit on the house that 
sent them forth. If one were to look for a cause productive 
of the good effect of which 1 have just spoken, one might point 
out the comparatively severe, but absolutely wise, system of 
education which has always been in vogue in our institution. 

In many other colleges preliminary and primary examinations 
are done away with ; in our College, for obvious reasons, they 
are still adhered to. 

Two years are elsewhere considered sufficient to prepare a man 
for the exercise of his profession ; with us three are thought and 
are known to be not too many. These two doctrines are still 
in conflict upon our Continent, but the past justifies the pre- 
sent, and gives us reason to hope that some future day the seri- 
ous system of education adopted at Montreal may be everywhere 
accepted as the only true and rightful one. 

As a claim to the attention as well as to the gratitude of 
the public, we might say that it is to our profession that the 
people of Canada and the United States are indebted for the 
non-prevalence of those scourges which to-day ravage Europe 
causing losses oftentimes enormous. 1 ’ 



Anatomy.— Final Year.— Pas* List. -Scott, Willyoung, 
Hayman, Scanlan, Walsh, Darling, McGlue, and Crossman. 

Pathology. —Final Year. — Willyoung, Crossman, Walsh, 
McGlue, Scanlan, Scott, Darling, Hayman, and Barber. 

Veterinary Obstetrics and Diseases of Cattle.— 
Walsh, Willyoung, Scott, Darling, Scanlan, Hayman, Cross- 
man, aud McGlue. 

The degree of Doctor of Veterinary Science was 
then conferred, first, upon T. Wesley Mills, M.A., 
M.D., and upon Dr. C. E. McEachran and Dr. C. M. 
Baker. Following them came the other graduates. 






cx view LU uiscuss uiose diseases, to cause them to be 
more easily vanquished and better understood, Veterinary 
Medical Associations have been formed ; one of the first founded 
in this country was established in connection with our College 
i ™-i a i St few y? ars , a Psychological Society was founded 

J7 ? 1 S 8, J and , lfc * has g°»c far in pleading the cause of 

has done 5 ^ fUtUre ’ We trust ’ wil1 show the good it 

Now, you will pardon us if we say a few words in our own 
behalf. There was a time, not long ago, when a Veterinary 
Surgeon had the unenviable reputation of being an ignorant 
man, when he was placed even by enlightened people far below 
themselves on the ladder of social and intellectual life. 



1890 .] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



211 



lhat time, we believe, has passed away, and if some rein- 
liant of that ignorance still exist, we feel that it will soon dis- 
piE be 0l ' e the cnticism aud condemnation of an intelligent 

. Om graduates of former years had great responsibilities rest- 
ing on their shoulders Upon them devolved the task of up- 
holding, through life, their own personal honour and that of 
the faculty to which they belonged. Upon us weighs a greater 
g uuge, or rather the greater privilege of defending, the rights 
ot the University, of ever working with this end in view to 
honour her for the inestimable favour she has conferred upon 
us this afternoon. 

The immense benefit, we will derive from the promo ion of 
our College will, to a great extent, depend upon our fu ure 
conduct ; our aspirations must ever be onward, and we should 
keep in view the fact, that all we do to advance our profession, 
will shed its lustre on old McGill. 

And now one word more and I have done. 

It has been truly said that life is made up of meetings and 
partings. The former are oftentimes joyous, the latter are 
nearly always sad. However, at this final moment, when we 
ate about to leave the Professors whose devo ion and self-sacri- 
fice have always — have ever been ours, and the students whose 
friendship has caused us many joyous hours— at this morneii', 
I say , we draw consola ion and strength from the knowledge 
that one and all, you will tender us your best wishes, and bid 
us success and happiness in our journey through life. 

THE REPLY TO THE GRADUATES. 

Dr. McEachran, Dean of the Faculty, gave the address to 
the graduates in Comparative Medicine. Before addressing 
himself specially to the graduates, he referred to the branches 
of scientific study to which his Faculty was devoted, and traced 
the rise of V eterinary Science from the earliest time, until now 
it is competent to rank side by side with Human Medicine. 
It embraced the study and comparison of the anatomy, physi- 
ology and diseases of animals, with those of the highest type 
of animal — man. Of necessity, the study was confined more 
particularly to domestic animals, in which field of study they 
had a most comprehensive one, when it was considered that 
medical science, in all its collateral branches and sub-divisions 
of study, had to be considered in relation to the different 
classes of domestic animals. Looked at in a still broader light, 
when we consider that in Canada alone there are about 1,165,- 
288 horses and 3,866,479 cattle and other horned animals, 
worth, in the aggregate, say $200,000,000, and representing 
no small proportion of the country’s wealth, aud knowing, as 
we do, that everyone of these animals is, like ourselves, liable 
to accidents and diseases, many of which are preventable, many 
curable, surely the ministers to these animals in sickness, from 
a pecuniary point alone, ought to be men well grounded in 
medical science. Day by day the sciences of Human and 
Comparative Medicine were becoming more closely united and 
more and more dependent upon one another. The day was 
not far distant when a course on Comparative Medicine would 
be found a part of the curriculum of every medical school. 
He next paid a glowing eulogy to McGill College, which had 
done so much for learning throughout the country. 

Speaking to the graduates, he said Gentlemen, — You have 
now completed the curriculum prescribed for you, and have 
been admitted to the degree of Doctor of Veterinary Science. 
This you have gained after a hard course of study, and hav- 
ing passed most searching written and oral tests, by independ- 
ent examiners appointed by the Government, as well as the 
examinations prescribed by the University. 

Presumably, therefore, you are qualified to practice ; I be- 
lieve you to be so. Your examiners declare you so, this great 
University announces you so. Now, gentlemen, do not imagine 
this memorable day in your lives is to mark the end of your 
studies ; by no means. 

During your pupilage you have had but little time to familiar- 
ize yourselves with the literature of your profession other than 
your text-books. It will now be your duty to do so. To keep 
pace with the rapidly-evolving science of Medicine, you must 
be constant readers of scientific journals and new publications, 
not alone those directly bearing on your own particular profes- 
sion or science, but on all co-lateral subjects. There is no pro- 



fession which requires in its members so varied a store of gen- 
eral knowledge as does yours. 

In the daily walks of life you will come in contact with all 
classes of society, and all degrees of rank and station. You 
will be expected to have a general knowledge more or less ex- 
tensive, and be expected to engage in intelligent conversa- 
tion on almost every conceivable subject which happens to be of 
particular interest to each special client. Thus, the advanced 
farmer leads you into discussions on “ Silos,” on feeding stand- 
ards, the relative merits of this or that breed of cattle, horses, 
sheep, or swine. 

The sporting man imagines that you should know all win- 
ners and pedigrees of noted horses. The politician expects 
you to be thoroughly conversant with the bills before the house, 
and will be surprised if you admit that you do not wade through 
Hansard regularly. 

It is your duty, therefore, to be a student of everything 
around you ; be observant, and gather information from every 
source possible. Make it a habit, on every occasion when you 
are asked for information which you cannot impart from want 
of knowledge, note it down, and go to your library and inform 
yourselves of it for future use. So in your practice acquire a 
habit of noting cases, record every case of more than passing 
interest, and study the subject carefully, read every available 
standard author on it, and in the light of knowledge so ob- 
tained, applied to the case under observation, you will soon 
become masters of your profession. 

Never miss an opportunity of making a post-mortem exami- 
nation ; nothing aids a man so much in making a correct diag- 
nosis as the repeated corrections and errors disclosed by a post- 
mortem examination. Never waste a pathological specimen, 
think how much good others may gain who succeed you as 
students of Comparative Medicine, from even one specimen, 
accompanied by a carefully recorded history. Museum speci- 
mens, accompanied by histories, are of great service in illustrat- 
ing didactic lectures. 

In your practice acquire the habit of careful clinical inspec- 
tion, and ever remember that your patients, though dumb, are 
in all things like as we are — they hear, see, feel, smell, taste, 
suffer pain, and enjoy pleasureable emotions just as we do. 
Deal with them in the full consciousness of these facts. Do 
not frighten them either by voice or look, never cause even the 
slightest pain that you can prevent, and never nauseate them 
by nauseous medical compounds such as you would consider 
barbarous in a doctor to prescribe for yourself. 

In surgical operations, don’t forget the sentient nerves which 
ramify every part of the body, employ every means in your 
power to lessen the suffering in necessary operations ; too little 
use is made of the valuable discoveries applied to lessen human 
suffering ; local and general anaesthetics. 

in your fees be moderate — by no means undervalue your 
professional services— but be satisfied with fair, moderate 
charges. 

Acquire prompt business habits, keep engagements punctu- 
ally ; nothing drives friends and clients away as quickly as in- 
attention to engagements. 

Collect your accounts regularly, pay your own debts promptly, 
and avoid debt as you would a quicksand. 

Gentlemen, in going out into the great world, do not sup- 
pose that you will not have to meet with opposition and dis- 
couragements — for you shall ; but meet them manfully ; and 
let me assure you, that with your scientific attainments, and 
by unimpeachable conduct, by industry, sobriety, and fair 
dealing with all men, you need have no fear for the future. 

The importance of your profession is daily becoming more 
and more understood ; if you fail, blame not your profession, 
but blame yourselves, and never forget that, under no circum- 
stances, can your profession disgrace you — but you may disgrace 
your profession. 

Choose for your companions those only who are enlightened 
and refined ; let your reading and your conversation always be 
elevating in character. 

In all things be gentlemen ; live as gentlemen, talk as 
gentlemen, and dress like gentlemen. 

Much more might profitably be said on your duty to your- 
selves, to your clients, to your profession, and to your Alma 
Mater, but time forbids. 



212 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



f 1890. 



Ill conclusion, therefore, gentlemen, on behalf of your teachers 
who, we trust, you will consider your lifelong friends, I say 
you “Godspeed;” we send you forth into a wide field of 
scientific usefulness, in which we trust some of you, at least, 
will become eminent and successful men, honoured and re- 
spected by your fellows and confreres. We will watch your 
progress as fathers do their children, and never forget that we 
look to you, w T ho are the first University graduates of this 
Faculty, to uphold the reputation of your Faculty, and this 
great University, of which it forms a minor part. 

In the name of the Faculty, 1 beg to tender our thanks to 
the Provincial Government for their liberality in continuing to 
give us the annual grant, and to the Hon. Acting Commis- 
sioner of Agriculture, for taking the trouble to honour us with 
his presence to-day ; to those gentlemen who constitute the 
Board of Examiners, who have travelled long distances in 
order to assist us , and to this great assembly, for your patience 
in listening to these remarks. 

The Principal expressed regret that Hon. D. A. 
Ross, who it was expected would be present, was un- 
able to attend. Rev. Principal MacVicar pronounced 
the benediction, and the Convocation for 1890 was 
at an end. 



Societies. 



VETERINARY MEDICAL ASSOCIATION. 

The closing meeting was held on Friday evening, 
March 28th, in the lecture room of the college. Dip- 
lomas were conferred on Messrs. McGlue, Scanlan, 
Scott, Hayman, Darling, Willyoung, Walsh, Cross- 
man. The prizes were awarded as follows : 1st., M. 
H. Scanlan ; 2nd., J. McGlue ; 3rd., L. E. Will- 
young. 

The society for the study of Comparative Psycho 
logy held its closing meeting on the same evening, 
the President, Dr. Mills, in the chair. This brought 
to a close a series of interesting and instructive meet- 
ings, and were well calculated to insure better treat- 
ment to the dumb creation. Diplomas were also 
awarded to the same gentlemen. Prizes for best 
papers were awarded to : 1st., R. N. Walsh : 2nd., 
L. E. Willyoung. 



Horrespon&ence. 



CONSISTENCY. 

Editors University Gazette : — 

Sirs, — At a recent meeting of the Graduates’ 
Society, called to receive reports of the representative 
fellows in corporation, one representative fellow, who 
is always loudest in the cry to admit the press to cor- 
poration meetings, in rising to address the meeting, 
said : “ If there are any reporters present I request 
them not to report what I am about to say.” 

Graduate. 



“THE UNIVERSITY GAZETTE.” 
Editors University Gazette : — 

I would suggest that the shares of The University 
Gazette Company should not be transferable, and 
that at the death of each proprietor, his or her share 



should revert to the Undergraduates of the Faculty 
in which the holder graduated, in such a way that 
any income derived from such share would be used 
for the improvement of the paper. 

No stockholder would object to such a scheme, 
because it is the intention of each of us to live for 
200 to 300 years. 

Shareholder. 



Editors University Gazette : — 

In your last issue a communication appears from 
“ A Member ” of the “ Greek Letter Societies,” in 
which the following appears : — 

“ I gratefully recognize in behalf of the college, 
both what this fraternity has already done in making 
its histoiy so brilliant with illustrious names, and 
what it is doing to-day in adorning and strengthen- 
ing the college in making its members purer, braver, 
truer men, and in using its increasing power for in- 
creasing growth in all that is honourable and of good 
report.” 

Can so much be said about the McGill Society ? 

Non-member 



Sporting. 

I he first annual meeting of the McGill University 
Cricket Club was held in the rooms of the Faculty of 
Law, on Friday, March 28th, Mr. Oughtred, the Vice- 
President, in the chair. The reports of the Secretary- 
Treasurer were read and confirmed. The report 
showed that last season 13 matches were played, of 
which 10 were won, one was drawn, and two lost, one 
by four runs. Some discussion took place as to the 
best means of improving the ground, and the matter 
was left in the hands of the incoming committee. 
The following officers were elected : — Hon. President, 
Sir Wm. Dawson ; President, Prof. C. E. Moyse ; 
Vice-President, A. R. Oughtred, B.C.L. j Treasurer, 
J. F. Mackie, B.A., B.C.L. ; Secretary, F. W. Hib- 
bard, B.A., R. C. Smith, B.C.L., A. T. Langley, 
E. H. Hamilton, B.A.Sc., J. E. Hewetson. 



Personals. 



J. S. J. Routhier, Architect, Ottawa. 

Macfarlane, B.A.Sc., ’89, is Assistant City Engineer, 
Brockville, Ont. 

T. W. Lesage, B.A.Sc., ’85, is in the Montreal City 
Surveyor’s office. 

W. Chipman, B. A. Sc., ’76, is City Engineer, 
Brockville, Ont. 

P. D. Ross, B. A. Sc., ’78, is proprietor of the 
Ottawa Evening Journal . 

J. A. Robert, B. A. Sc., ’84, of the Dominion 
Blanket Co., is in this city. 

Wm. Graham, B.A.Sc., ’84, is superintending the 
building of an elevated railway in Sioux City, Iowa. 



1890.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



213 



Dr. T. Wesley Mills has been elected a fellow of 
the Geological Section of the Royal Society of 
Canada. 

M. W. Hopkins, B.A.Sc., ’88, has been appointed 
resident engineer on the Charleston, Cincinnati & 
Chicago Railroad, under C. B. Smith, B.A.Sc., ’84, as 
divisional engineer. 

R. Bell, M. D., ’61, B.A.Sc., L. N. Richard, B.A. 
Sc., A. P. Low, B.A.Sc., ’82, D. B. Dowling, B.A. 
Sc., ’83, J. McEvoy, B.A. Sc., ’83, are on the stalf of 
the Geological Survey, Ottawa. 

The name of Dr. F. W. Kelley was inadvertently 
omitted from the list of representative graduates who 
presented their reports to the Giaduates’ Society, 
dealing with the work they had done before the 
Corporation Board. Dr. Kelley is always at his post 
when work is to be done affecting the interests of the 
University. 

Another Science man has “ ceased to be a fractional 
part and become a unit,” as the Rev. S. Moore would 
sav. Verily the ladies are finding out that *• when 
they want a good husband, that is our specialty.” 

By Kev. J. B. Muir of St. Andrew’s Cliurcli, Huntingdon, 
Arthur E B. Mill, B.A.Sc., of New Westminster, B.U., to 
Jane Harden, eldest daughter of Hugh Graham, Esq. 



Exchanges. 



The Edinburgh Student does us the honour to re- 
print one of our “ Between the Lectures,” and adds, 
in its own gentlemanly way : — 

11 We need not apologise for culling the following from the 
pages of Thk University Gazette, Montreal; such a clever 
little morsel could not be passed over unnoticed.” 

The following also is very gratifying : — 

“A recent number of The University Gazette has an 
article on the value of athletics in education generally, and as 
connected with McGill College specially. Statistics are given 
to show that the percentage of honours gained by the athletic 
men is higher than that of others. This is quite in accord with 
our own experience.” 

This is what the College Student facetiously, and 
apparently truthfully, says of some of the depart- 
ments of its own Franklin and Marshall College : — 

“ After the lapse of ages the college library has been exhumed. 
It is said to contain some rare treasures of literature. Why 
they have never been exhibited is rather hard to explain. T le 
college library and the fossilized gymnasium boom would un- 
doubtedly possess great attractions tor the curious. We mig it 
have the' boom on exhibition in the library nightly, with mat- 
inees three times a week, and music by the only man w T ho kno\\s 
anything about music around this college, all 1°^ the srnad sum 
of 25 cents ; children under twelve years, three-fifths rate, cash 
down.” 

It. is very refreshing to hear College journals not 
afraid to speak the truth. It pays in the long run. 

The Alfred University , an 8-page quarterly, de- 
voted to general literary and University matters, edited 
and published by a committee of the lrustees of 
Alfred University, Alfred Centre, N.Y., is, so far a S 
we know, the only College paper in which the autho- 



rities of the University take a hand. These Ameri- 
cans are alive to the value of a properly conducted 
College journal. 

The Tuftonian , published twice a month by the 
students of Tuft’s College, College Hill, Mass., makes 
very agreeable reading. 

The King's College Record is a most respectable 
paper in its appearance, matter, and make-up, worthy 
of a College that, in a few weeks, will celebrate its 
centennial. 

Other College journals received this week' are : — 
The Atlantis , Lachute Academy News, The Delphic. 

We have received specimen pages of “ The Collegian 
Song Book, which will be an entirely new collection 
of songs, the editors making it a duty to give the 
college world fifty or sixty pages of unique and con- 
sistently college music.” 



Between the Lectures. 

To Let. — A large airy room, 76 feet in length and 
31 feet in breadth, for the use of third year men dur- 
ing the summer session and holidays. 

The shepherd has culled the crooks from his flock, 
and there are fragrant summer days in store for those 
wno are temporarily set aside for further inspection. 

First Fresh. — “What’s hurry ?” 

Second Fresh. — “Coin’ t’ opera.” 

First Fresh. — “Matinee V’ 

Second Fresh. — “Naw, Horatii Flacii Opera.” 

Prof. Hutchinson, at the meeting of the Graduates’ 
Society, said that the proportion of English-speaking 
students in Law, in this Province, is smaller than 
formerly. (Gen. XLI., 4.) 

The late Sir Charles Bright, at the age of 19, carried 
out the laying underground the Manchester telegraph 
lines under the streets of that vast city in a single 
night, without disturbing the traffic. What a boon 
a Sir Charles would be to Montreal. 

At the recent meeting of the Graduates’ Society, 
Dr. Mills, in a thoughtful speech, showed the value 
of the Faculty of Comparative Medicine by stating 
that, in attempting new methods of cure for man, it 
was well to practice on other animals, and thereby 
both were benefited. 

If some M.D.’s were to confine their attention to 
cattle, the health of the nation might be better. 

Not a sparrow can fall without “a dollar or eight 
days” overtaking the slayer, not a pigeon can fly from 
a trap without a parliamentary shriek, but who has 
mourned for the slaughter of the innocents that comes 
with the long March days 1 The nipping frost blights 
the bud of hope that has burst in the freshman heart, 
the clouds fall upon the exulting Primary man, the 
third year man receives a gentle shock borne with an 
equanimity gained from the rich stores of past experi- 
ence, the final man takes lodgings for another year — 
but who is there to mourn for the fallen ones 1 



214 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1890. 



SIGNS OF SPRING. 

In the spring comes out, loose jointed, 

From his hole in the doodle bug. 

In the spring the wasp, sharp pointed, 

Stabs the baby on the rug. 

In the spring the crawling leeches 
Up the creek their headway make, 

And the country maiden screeches 
Stepping on the garter snake. 

Professor — “ Mr. Newman, your knowledge of the 
grammar is very limited. Do you not have trouble 
in getting your translations ? ” 

Newman — “ Oh, no, sir; they keep them at all the 
book stores.” 

Papa — “I hear you were a bad girl to-day, and 
had to be spanked.” 

Small Daughter — “ Mamma is awful strict. If I’d 
a known she used to be a school teacher, I’d a told 
you not to marry her.” 

MATHEMATICAL. 

Mamma — “Now, Johnny, 1 will hear your lesson 
in arithmetic. If you should cut the cat into four 
pieces, what would each piece be called ? ” 

Johnny (promptly) — “ A titten.” 

MISUNDERSTOOD. 

Lawyer (who has posted witness) — “ Now, Pete, 
tell the Court and jury all you know about those 
stolen chickens.” 

Pete — “ I don’t reckon I will, boss. If I did that 
I’d go to jail, sure.” 

HORTICULTURE. 

Flossy (in the greenhouse) — “ Now, show us your 
rum tree, Mr. Rubytip.” 

Mr. li. (surprised) — “ My rum tree 1 What do 
you mean, child?” 

Flossy — “ Why, ma said you were raising an ele- 
gant rum blossom, so 1 thought .” 



College LUorlb. 



Harvard has offered her duplicate collection in 
Biology and Archaeology to Toronto University. 

A Sanskrit translation of the lost books of Euclid 
has been found at Jeypore, East India. An Indian 
scholar is to read a paper on the subject before the 
eighth International Congress of Orientalists at Stock- 
holm. Coming generations will, perhaps have to 
plod through an additional fifty pages of Solid 
Geometry . — The Athaenium . 

A remarkable class of schools found in Germany, 
Austria, and Holland, but not existing as independent 
schools either in France, Belgium or Italy, give special- 
ized instruction suitable for builders, engineers, and 
miners. That in Stuttgart is a magnificent structure, 
costing no less than £50,000. The annual budget 
amounted to <£7,400, of which only about £900 was 
contributed by payment of the pupils, the remaining 
sum being paid by the State. There are 28 masters 
of departments and 15 assistants. The complete course 
lasts for three years, and a considerable number of 
the students remain all that time. 



LITERATURE. 



SELECTED CANADIAN WORKS. 



History of Canada, .... 

By Prof. Bryce. 


(Cloth) 


$2.25 


In Divers Tones, .... 

By Chas. G. D. Roberts. 


(Cloth) 


1.00 


Songs of Old Canada, 

By William McLennan. 


(Cloth) 


1.00 


Songs of the Great Dominion, . 

By W. D. Lighthall. 


(Cloth) 


1.00 


Le Chien D’Or, 

By William Kirby. 


(Paper) 


.40 


The Young Seigneur, 

By Wilfred Ciiateauclaire. 


(Cloth) 


1.00 



Supplied by 

W. H. F. SHARSW00D, 

Publishers’ Agent, 

% 

orders for 180 St. James Street, 

BOOKS, 

PERIODICALS, Cif y and District Bank Building, 

STATIONERY, 

Promptly Executed. MONTREAL. 



OUR ADVERTISERS. 



PAGE, 

Armstrong k Radford, . . .217 

Ashford, C., . . . 21 8 

Atwater & Co., .... 200 

Birks, H., k Co., . . . 21 i 

Chapleau k Co., .... 200 

Clarke, G. W., . . . 218 

Gumming k Brewis, . . .216 

Doughty, A. G., . . . 217 

Drysdale, Win., k Co., . . . 200 

Dyer, W. A., k Co., . 200 

Featherston, A. M., . . . 217 

Gerth, E. A., . . . . 216 

Gray, Hy. R. , . . . .216 

Greenshields k Co., . . . 200 

Gurney, E. and C., k Co., . .215 

Henderson, John k Co., . . 215 

Hirseh, M. . . . . 200 

Jensen, J. L., . . . . 215 

Lyman, Sons k Co., . . .215 

Macaulay, W. B. T., . . . 217 

Montreal Steam Laundry Co., . . 218 

Murray, Win., . . . 217 

MacBean, D. B. A., . . . 216 

McEntyre k Son, . . . 200 

McLaren, W. D., . . . 218 

Ness, T. W., . . . . 215 

Nightingale, D., . 216 

Nordheimer k Co., . . . 218 

Notman k Son, . 218 

Payne Geo., .... 216 

Periard, A., . . 216 

Reid, Robert, . . . . 216 

Robertson k Co. f .... 200 

Ross, Hugh, . . . . 217 

Sharswood, W. H. F., . .214 

Sheppard, Geo. J., . . . 216 

Summerhayes k Walford, . . . 217 

Tarrante, Saml. f . . , 217 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



215 



Home Medical Batteries 

— AND — 

ELECTRO-MEDICAL APPARATUS, 

ELECTRIC BELLS, BATTERIES, ANNUNCIATORS, MOTORS, 
EXPERIMENTAL COILS, 

Learners’ Telegraphic Instruments, &c. 

EVERYTHING IN THE ELECTRICAL LINE. 

T. W. NESS, 694 Craig St., Montreal. 

Type-writers, Copygrapus, and Office Supplies. 



DYE W0^Kg, 

706 CRAIG- STREET. 



SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS 

"a nd” c hemica l apparatus. 

S tfull $to6k dor)£tki)tly oq Ukijd, Inipofted 
©iYedt fron\ tl\e I^ekdipg JVIki^ufadtu^efd 
of tl\e Wofld. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. 

i I 

LYMAN, SONS & CO., 

384 ST. PAUL STREET. 

JOHN HENDERSON & CO., 

H&tten and Furriers, 

229 ST. JAMES STREET. 

Special Agents for College Trenchers, &c. 



E. & C. GURNEY & CO., 



395 cSs 3Q7 St. IP^-crx. Street, Monthbal 



STOVES, 

GRATES, 

RANGES, 

SCALES. 



CURNEY’S 



CerbmIILHQLW™ He»tebs 



Cast Bundy Radiators. 



— ^Wholesale Manufacturers-: — 




Hot Air Furnaces 

FOR 

Coal or Wood. 

ALL GOODS GUARANTEED, 



Circulars on Application. 



385 & 387 

St. Paul Street, 



MONTREAL. 





216 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



THE MOST CONVENIENTLY SITUATED 

“Studio 

FOR McGILL COLLEGE, 

IS THAT OF 

GUMMING <£ BREWIS 

117 and 119 Mansfield St. 



SPECIAL. HATES TO 8TUDENT8. 



Telephone 4620. Satisfaction Guaranteed. 

“ Our Little Favorite," One dollar per doz. 



Established 1859 . 

HlElSra-ST IE3_ 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST 
ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STREET, 

(CORNER LA GA U CITE T I ERE, ) 

Montreal. 

Th« Diipensing of Physicians' Prescriptions a Specialty. 
Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers sup- 
plied with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 

N.B.— Observe New Address* 



Tie Iota Misti or Roman Ball, 

140 ST. MONIQUE ST., Joot of McGill College Ave. 

LARGE AND COMPLETE. 

Purifies the Blood ! Secures Perfect Cleanliness ! 
A Luxury without a Sting ! 

Gentlemen received from 6 to 8 a.m., 2 to 9 p.m. 

Ladies, “ “ 10 to 12 noon. 

D. B. A. MacBEAN, M.D. 
Doctors’ and Students’ Headquarters 

— FOR — 

E'XIfES OIGfA.B.S, 

Spiller & Co.’s (London, E.) Du Khedive Extra Fine 
CIGARETTES. 

Lowe & Co.’s THOMPSON PIPES and others. 

Larrett and moit Complete Stock of CANES in the City. VIRGINIA 
and TURKISH TOBACCOS. 

E. A. (^ERTH, 

2235 St. Catherine Street, Queen’s Block. 

GEORGE PAY 1ST ZE3 , 

CUN MAKER, 

687 CRAIG STREET, West of Bleury Street, ■ MONTREAL. 

Maker of the Genuine Racing Skates. 

Repairs Promptly Attended to. N.B.— Skates Ground. 



A. PERIARD, 

LAW BOOKSELLER, 

Publisher and Importer, 

23 ST. JAMES STREET, 

(Near the Court House,) 

MOITTBEAL. 

ROBERT REID, 

Montreal Marble and Granite Works, 

Cor. ST. CATHERINE AND ALEXANDER. 

Monumental & Cemetery Wort of every description. 

WOOD MANTLE-TILES FOR FIRE-PLACES AND FLOORING. 

AND ALL KINDS OF 

Fire-Place Furniture. 

Banjos & Guitars. 

Sole agent for the celebrated 

“BRUNO" GUITAR 

AND 

Dobson “ Victor ” Banjo. 

Guitars with Patent Head 
from $ 5 to $ 50 each . 

Banjos with latest im- 
provements 

from $ 7.50 to $ 50 each . 

Best Russian Gut Strings, 

Banjo Heads Replaced 

AND 

Musical Instruments of every 
description repaired. 

GEORGE J. SHEPPARD 

2282 St. Catherine St. 

N.B. — Special discount to 

Students. 

D. NIGHTINGALE, 

MANUFACTURER OF AND DEALER IN 

Pool & Billiard Tables, & Billiard Supplies, 

1742 NOTRE DAME ST., MONTREAL, Canada. 

Improved Billiard Cushions. 





UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



217 



NOW READY ! 

A New Book in Shorthand : 

“The Idylls of the King.” 

By ALFRED LORD TENNYSON. 

An Engraved Shorthand Version of the above by Arthur G. 
Doughty, beautifully Illustrated, is now completed. Printed 
in red and black, on vellum paper. Cloth and leather binding. 

All communications and orders to be addressed to 

A. C. TROTTER, 

B 3 . O. Box 1734, - Montreal. 

TUTORING. 

MR. W. B. T. MACAULAY, 

EDINBURGH UNIVERSITY AND HIGH SCHOOL, MONTREAL. 

Students fitted for Matriculation into all Faculties of the 
University and for other Examinations. 

37 McGill College Avenue. 

ARMSTRONG I RADFORD, 

Haberdashers aid Ontfitters, 

ALWAYS IN POSSESSION OF 

Latest Novelties and conceits in fientle- 
men's Wear . 

2246 ST. CATHERINE STREET, ( Opposite Victoria St. ) 

TELEPHONE No. 4574. 

Agents for 

Canada Steam Laundry and Dye Works, 

1494 ST. CATHERINE STREET. 
Special attention paid to Students’ orders. 

WM. MURRAY, 

MANUFACTURER AND IMPORTER OF 

i tic Ifuvs anil pat& 

No. 2202 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 

( Opposite the English Cathedral, ) 

MONTREAD. 

N.B. — Liberal Discount to Students. 



RING UP ! BELL TELEPHONE No. 1237 

FEDERAL “ “ 693, 

For Prices of Photographs 

OR TO MAKE YOUR APPOINTMENTS 

Exceptionally Good Rate to Students, and none but the 
Finest Work sent out from our Studios. 

*3* Photos, of Professors on Sale ! 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD, 

1 BLEURY STREET. 



) BUY YOUR ( ~ 

Boots and Shoes, 

Rubbers, Overshoes and Moccasins 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 




UP TOWN : QUEEN'S HALL BLOCK, 



2243 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 
The West End 

HAIR -DRESSING AND HAIR - CUTTING 

AND 

Shampooning Establishment, 

SAMUEL TA HR ANTE 

From England, 

2305 & 2307 St. Catherine St. 

The Place for all the Students to go for a Good Hair-Cnt, &c. 

HUGH ROSS, 

[Successor to J. D. Anderson ]* 

MERCHANT TAILOR, 

206 St. James St., Montreal, 

Has this season on hand a beautiful Stock of Goods of all kinds, 
such as this house has always been famed for. 

Clerical, Advocates' and Academical Gowns 

MILITARY UNIFORMS AND HIGHLAND COSTUMES 
A SPECIALTY. 

Inspection Invited, Snecial Discount to Btndents. 




218 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



wji pip § W 

Photographers, 

STUOEJFTS’ PORTRAITS 

: : CLASS GROUPS 

: : : PRMPATE GROUPS 

PORTRAITS OF PROFESSORS 
; COLLEGE I'lEU'S, #e. 

17 Bletje-y Street, 

MONTREAL. 



Montreal Steam Laundry Co’y. 

LIMITED, 

21 and 23 ST. ANTOINE ST., - MONTKEAL.'- 

The largest and most complete Laundry in the Dominion / 

Satisfaction Guaranteed at the Lowest Prices. 

SPECIAL RATES OFFERED TO FAMILIES , HOTELS, COL 
LEGES, AND ALL PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS. 

Sturts, Collars and Cuffs made to order at reasonatile prices ! 

TELEPHONE Nos., Bell. Federal, T. H. LOVE, 
580 &. 2482. 1083. Manager. 



TH -E GEIXUINJB 

Cook’S Prieitid 
BAKING POWDER 

Is the BEST VALUE in the market, is made from 
the PUREST INGREDIENTS, gives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to the useT, and should be pre- 
ferred by all careful housekeepers. Retailed 
e very where. 



O. ASHFORD, 

Medical Bookseller and Stationer, 

KEEPS IN STOCK 

All the MEDICAL TEXT BOOKS used in McGill College, 
besides a large variety of- -NOTE BOOKS, at 
prices to give satisfaction. 

Stylo Pens and Fountain Pens, 75c., 10 p. e. dise’t., with others more expensive 

HISTOLOGICAL SPECIMEN BOXES, COVER GLASSES, SLIDES, &c. 

Montreal G-en. 3E3:oopita.l DP!kLa.r23CLa.copceIa,, 25c. 

C. ASHFORD, 

Near University st. 818 Dorchester St., Montreal. 



44th YEAR. 



NORDHEIMER’S 



!• STAB LIS H El) 1815. 



OK THE STANDARD CELEBRATED MAKERS 

STEINWAY, CHICKERING, HAINES, NORDHEIMER. 



THE 



Public are Invited to Call & Inspect our New Stock & Compare Values. 

A. <£ S. NORDHEIMER, 

213 ST. TA-IMIES STREET, ^OJSTTIREEIA k 

HENRY BIRKS » CO. I Jewelers, &c . 

Fine Jewellery, Silver Ware, Watches, Clocks, &c, 

A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF ARTICLES SUITABLE FOR PRIZES, &c. 

235 and 237 St. James Street, - - Montreal. 



THE UNIVERSAL 288 and 240 St. Ja mes Street, Montreal. 

Car. W • CLAIMvE, Importer of* 

Fine Fancy Goods, • Art Metal Ware, * Fine Leather Goods. 

Ladies’ and Gent’s Fitted Travelling Bags , Toilet Cases , &c. 

ALL KINDS OF RICH GOODS SUITABLE FOR WEDDING, BIRTH DAY and COMPLIMENTARY PRESENTS. 




