



MONTREAL, FEBRUARY 2, 1893. 



I I 

I I / 

Hil/// 




/ 



Editorial Comments 107 

Scientific Literature. 108 

The University of France 109 

Polysyllabic Rhymes m 

Some Aspects of Education m 

Alone with Nature 

Epitaphial Inscriptions H 3 

An Old College Library 115 

The Ottawa Valley Graduates Society 
of McGill University 

Tim O’Gallagher ^^7 






Arts Dinner 

Donalda Columns n8 

Sporting Column 120 

Societies 121 

Faculty Reports 123 

Medicine 123 

Science 124 

Law 124 

Arts 125 

Comp. Med 126 

Donalda News 126 

P^xchanges 127 

\ archives 

^ NO. 



Irro 



k. 




MUNCO CIGARS, EXCEPTIONALLY FINE. FINE COOPS OUR SPECIALTY 



S. DAVIS & SONS, LARGEST CIGAR MANUFACTURERS IN CANADA. 




FINE AMERICAN OClTAMg 

In Oak, Rosewood, Mahogany and Cherry. 

“STEWART” “BAT STATE” and “DOBSON” 



Genuine li^aliun IMIandLolines. 

Best Russian Gut Strings and Everything in the 
Musical Line. 

GEORGE J. SHEPPARD, 

2274 and 2276 St. Catherine Street. 

N. B,— Special disconnt to Students. 

Montreal Photographic Supply. 

R. F. SMITH, 164 St. James St. 

SOLE AGENT FOR CANADA. SPECIAL BARGAINS. 

Carbutt’8 dry Plates and Films. 1 6x7 Folding Kodak $57 60 

Gray’s Periscope Lenses. 14x6 “ “ 62 60 

Prosch Triplex Shutters. 1 4x6 Hawkeye Roll Holder etc. 25 00 

Prosch Flash Lamps. 1 No. 2 Kodak 25 00 

New York Aritso Paper. 1 C Daylight Kodak. . .26 00 

Peerless Blue Paper. 1 A “ “ 8 W 

STANDARD 

TYPEWRITER 

1892 

JVIODE-L 

CALL - AND - SEE 

Our Medical Keyboard. 

SPACKMAN & CO.‘, 

164 ST. JAMES STREET, - MONTREAL. 



Hieh Quality. Low Prices. 

Surgical Instruments 

References by kind permission, The Medical Faculty 

J. H. CHAPMAN, 

2294 St. Catherine Street, Corner of 
McGill College Avenue. 



Bell Telephone, 4396. MOfltveul, 




To buy their Winter supply of 

NtCKWEAR, TJNDEEWEAE, HOSIEET 



Reindeer, Antelope, Buckskin, 

Dogskin and Woolen Gloves 
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION. 

New G00U.S arrivlns: dally at 

ARMSTRONG & MUNROE’S, 

2£i6 St- Cathetise Street, 

Foot of Victoria. 



WISE professional 
MEN 

BUY their DESKS 

and 

BOOK 

CASES 

from 

TEES & CO. 




BOOTS 



I keep a good boot, suitable for fall 

wear, and one that will; last well 

and sell it to students for $3.00. 

CA-XiL I35T AliTX) SEBT IT- 



A. M. FEATHERSTON, 2243 St. Catherine, 

- CORNEB VICTORIA STREET, - - 



Suits for GYMNASIUM of field. 

Running Shoes, etc, 

ALBERT DEMERS, 

D 338 St. Janies Street, 

NEABLT OPPOSITE WITNESS OFFICE. 



300 St. James St., Montreal. 



/Vlthow our Rates to 
Students are 
^ Low, 

# We give theni the best iq 
W Portraits, 

Groups, etc. 

W. Notman & Son, ITBlenrySl 



II 



LA CADENA ” and “ LA FLORA ” The Gream of the Havana Crop. 



MADRE E’ HIJO (7 SIZES.) EL PADRE AND CABLE 




jHcGllsIs FORTNIGHTby. 

A Fortnightly Journal of Literature, Universit7 Thought and Event. 

VoL. I. MONTREAL, FEBRUARY 2, 1893. No. 7 




^EDITORIAL BOARD<- 



Gordon W. Mac Doug all, B.A. (Law *94), Editor-in-chief, 

NV. M. MacKbrachkr, (Arts *94). George F. Shaw (Med. *93). 

A. R. Holden, B.A. (Science *94). Mabel Lee (Donalda *93). 

Wilfred Plaskett (Comp. Med. 93). J. A. MacPhail, M.D. (Grads. Soc.). 



EBUSINE SS B OARD<^ 

H. M, Kinghorn, B.A. (Med. *94), Chairman, 

E. J. MacIver (Arts ^93), Secretary. 

J. Feathbrston (Science *93). Peers Davidson, B. A. (Law *93;. 

F. A. Bf)TTERELL (Donalda *95). Glen Campbell (Comp. Med. ’93). 



The McGill Fortnightly is published by the Students of the University 
on the Thursday of every second week during the College Session in the 
University of McGill. 

The annual subscription is $1 oy, payable strictly in advance. Single copies 
may be obtained at E. M. Renouf’s and Wm. Drysdale & Co., Booksellers. Price, 
10 cents. 

Rejected Communications will not be returned, to which rule no exception 
r an be made. 

The name of the writer must always accompany a communication. 

Address Contributions to Editor-in-Chief, P.O. Box 37. 



EDITORIAL COMMENTS. 



SUMMER SESSION IN SCIENCE- 

The increasing excellence of the Science Faculty 
and the advance of its standard is bringing its own 
penalty in an increase of work upon professors and 
students. The professors in the Science Faculty are 
probably the most hard worked in the University, not 
even excepting those in Medicine. They devote their 
whole time to the work to the exclusion of private 
practice, and much of it is of a hard, laborious, practical 
kind. Several members of the staff spend seven hours 
a day in the class rooms and laboratories, and in addi- 
tion they have the labor of preparing lectures and 
correcting examination papers. In addition to his 
teaching, the Dean has the enormous task of regulating 
the affairs of the Faculty and its splendid equipment. 

The students also are overworked. According to the 
timetables as set forth in that excellent annual, the 
Calendar, the Science students work seven hours a day 
for five days a week, excepting Saturday, when it is 
three hours less, making thirty -nine hours a week. In 
the Arts Faculty the hours for all years are fifteen a 
week. Work done under such pressure cannot be of 
the best kind. The Medical Faculty had the same 
difficulty when the transition came from the old 
didactic to the new practical system, and partially 
solved it by adding a summer session to the course. 



; The same solution is open to the Science Faculty, 
j The summer months could be devoted entirely to shop 
I work and laboratory testing when the students could 
I work all day long. At present with the broken hours 
much time mu.st be wasted in adjusting lathes and other 
i machines, and before the piece is completed the 
I student is called away. If a summer session were 
I added, the students could work without interruption, 

I and the appliances of the Faculty w^ould fulfil to the 
I fullest extent the high aim of their provider. 

The advantages of identifying themselves with the 
Canadian Society of Civil Engineers do not seem to be 
fully appreciated by the Students of the Faculty of 
Applied Science. When the Society was formed, most 
liberal provisions were made for undergraduates. Stu- 
dent membership was provided for, student meetings 
were held, undergraduates were asked to read papers, 
and when of sufficient merit they were incorporated in 
the transactions of the Society. For some reason the 
Students this year are disposed to form societies of 
their own, and even each year has resolved itself into a 
deliberative asse ibly. No fault can be found with 
this action except in so far as it prevents them attend- 
ing the Society of Civil Engineers. It is hardly 
likely, at least it would be hard to convince a thought- 
ful person that even in the combined wisdom and 
experience of a whole class of students there is as 
much profit as among the Society of Civil Engineers. 
Engineering is essentially a practical .science, and 
students cannot afford to neglect the experience of 
those who are eminent in it. Besides, it is of the 
greatest importance to become acquainted with the 
men with whom they will afterward come in contact 
in the practice of their profession. 

Hon. J. S. Hall presented a petition before the 
Quebec Eegislature during the last session, from the 
governors, corporation and medical faculty of McGill, 
signed by Mr. J. H. R. Molson, Sir J. Hickson, Messrs. 
W. C. Macdonald, G. Hague, Prof Alex. Johnson, 
and other members of the University, praying that the 
bill introduced by Dr. Marcil respecting physicians and 
surgeons be not passed, and setting forth the harm it 
will do to McGill. 

In a recent number of the Fortnightl,y the scope of 
the bill was discussed along with its bearing upon the 
University, and the prediction is verified that the 
measure would be re-introduced this session. Last year 
it passed the Lower House, and was only rejected in 
the Legislative Council by a majority of one. The 



108 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



failure to carry was due to the absence of one of the 
strongest advocates of the Bill who this year will 
doubtless be in his place. Under these circumstances 
it is probable the bill will become law. McGill Medi- 
cal School will then have to consider how^ its perni- 
cious provisions can be met. 



The semi- annual examinations for entrance to the 
Bar of the Province of Quebec have taken place, and 
the truth of the well worn theory of the survival of the 
fittest has been again most startlingly demonstrated. 

Some twent}"-six candidates presented themselves 
before the Provincial examiners for the examinations* 
and of that number only five were counted worthy of 
taking their position in the professional arena and be’ 
fore the commercial world as interpreters of the intri* 
cacies of our complex but highly interesting and ins- 
tructive jurisprudence. 

This seems indeed a very small minority, and if a 
correspondingly small rate of increase in the numbers 
of practitioners be maintained in the future, the Bar of 
Montreal promises — nay threatens — to be composed of a 
decidedly small but eminently well qualified number 
of the elect. Of course there are two sides to this ques- 
tion of restriction, and many men will be found on both 
sides — men to advocate the most careful enforcement 
of the various strictures placed on the profession in the 
way of careful registrations and tedious and knotty 
examinations ; and also on the other side, men who 
advocate the greatest liberality and a permission of 
pratique q 7 ii pent to the educated w^orld in general. 
A medium course is probably the most beneficial, but 
until the number of successful candidates materially 
increases, there seems no immediate necessity for a 
decision either one way or the other. 



The system according to which the Arts Dinner is 
held is extremely unsatisfactory. The committee 
adopted the plan of its predecessors, and would not 
advise succeeding committees to do the same. They 
felt most forcibly the truth of that remark of Demos- 
thenes : “ without it, none of the 

necessary things can be accomplished.” One of the 
members suggested that the institution be endowed, 
nothing would be more satisfactory ; but until such 
endowment is forthcoming, some other mode of pro- 
viding the funds than the present should be adopted. 
Either the professors should not be asked to subscribe — 
when an invitation would be in place, and the dinner 
would be a students* dinner — or they should co operate 
with the students, appointing members to the com- 
mittee and making the dinner a Faculty affair. The 
Faculty as a body is against contributing under the 
present conditions, and allows its share of the burden 
to fall upon a few professors and lecturers. And pro- 
bably the Faculty is right. 



A report was made at the last meeting of the Cor- 
poration, recommending, if possible, that candidates for 
the professional faculties should take two years* study 
in the Faculty of Arts as a preliminary, and it was 



thought matters might be so arranged that the B. A. 
and professional degrees could be taken in six years. 
In the Fortnightly of 12th January there was a 
strong plea for some such arrangement, and it is gratif} - 
ing to find the authorities well disposed to the sugges- 
tion. It is nothing more than a coincidence, although 
a curious one, that the events should follow so closely. 
The idea, it appears, dates many years back, and Dr. 
Johnson, Dean of the Faculty of Arts, whose capacity 
for long and silent work is well known, has been 
developing it ever since. 



SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE. 

The literature of Engineering has been enriched by a 
work newly issued from the press of John Wiley & Sons, 
New York, 1893, entitled '‘Theory of Structures and 
Strength of Materials ** The author is Henry J. Bovey, 
Dean of the Faculty of Applied Science McGill Univer- 
sity. The prime value of the work consists in the 
amount it adds to the present store of knowledge of 
these subjects which in short comprise almost every- 
thing that comes within the wide scope of civil engi- 
neering. The next interest of the book lies in the fact 
that the author is so closely identified with our own 
University. After the Principal himself Mr. Bovey is per- 
haps one of the most interesting figures on the teaching 
staff. This arises from his long association, from the act- 
ual work he has accomplished, from the benefactions he 
has been so largely instrumental in securing and direct- 
ing, and from his enthusiasm for scientific things. In 
addition he has brought the Faculty of Applied Science 
in close contact with the profession of Engineering 
through the Canadian Society of Civil Engineers. The 
Faculty at present, if one compares it with the institu- 
tion of thirteen years ago, is the best tribute and proof 
of Mr. Bovey’ s talent and capacity for work and the 
direction of the work of others. The dedication of the 
book is a nice example of Mr. Bovey *s aptitude for re- 
cognizing the fitness of things — “ Dedicated to William 
C. McDonald, whose benefactions to McGill Univer- 
sity have done so much to advance the cause ofScientific 
Education ** The names of the Dean of Faculty and its 
benefactor must always be coupled together. 

In 1882 Mr. Bovey published a little work on Applied 
Mechanics, which consisted mainly of a collection of 
notes intended for the use of students. The volume in 
question may in some respects be considered as a second 
edition of that work ; but the subject matter has been 
so much added to and rearranged that it is almost a new 
book, and the author’s hope will be realized that it will 
prove acceptable not only to students but also to the 
profession at large. For a book containing so many 
mathematical formulae, it is singularly free from typogra- 
phical errors. How this immunity was accomplished 
does not appear unless by an almost impossible feat of 
proof-reading done by Mr. Chandler. There is nothing 
so irritating either in writing upon an examination 
paper or in private reading as these mechanical errors. 
The book consists of over eight hundred pages and 
serves as a text-book for all students, the elementary and 
advanced course being arranged in natural sequence. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



The features to which attention is especially called 
are the set of samples which serve to accentuate the 
main poinis of each chapter, the tables of actual weights 
of modern bridges published here for the first time, 
the articles on maximum shearing forces and bending 
moments, the flexure of long columns and the theorem 
of their moments. 

It is essentially scientific in phraseology and nota- 
tion. There is no guess work, and nothing is left to rule 
of thumb which is so important an appliance in the 
hands of men who are fond of calling themselves prac- 
tical. Yet Mr. Bovey is frank enough to admit that the 
deductions of things do not always coincide with ex- 
perimental results, and he is very careful to define his 
assumptions with precision. For example, in the twist- 
ing of shafts and the bending of beams, the assumption 
is made that plane sections before distention are plane 
after the operation, that the material is homogeneous, 
and that elementary layers expand and contract freely 
under tensile and compressive forces. Such supposi- 
tions are far from the truth, but he shows in how far the 
results are affected thereby and therefore their exact 
value. 

The graphical determination of stresses in every 
description of framed structure is most valuable by 
reason of the excellence of the diagrams and the 
clearness of the notation. In this connection this 
discussion of the practically indeterminate effects of 
wind pressure, weight of snow, ice and other acci- 
dental loads is very interesting, including as it does a 
table of the weights of different roof coverings. The 
effect of rolling loads is very thoroughly considered in 
the chapter on Shearing Forces and Bending Moments 
the method of determination of the maximum bending 
moment and shearing forces being original with the 
author. 

Upon the subject of internal stresses the difficult 
question of retaining walls is treated theoretically and 
practically. The basis of the one is Rankine’s theory 
of earthwork and of the other the experience of the 
most capable engineers. 

The chapter on the transverse strength of beams 
contains Mr. Cams- Wilson’s article on surface loading 
read before the Physical Society. The results are at 
variance with those commonly accepted by engineers 
and the matter requires further elucidation. The 
subject is continued in the following chapter where the 
most theoretical aspect is considered. 

The method of treating the equation of bending 
moments and its interpretation at pages 433 to 435 is a 
beautiful example of analytic reasoning, where it is 
proved that the curves representing deflection, slope, 
and bending moment are connected in precisely the 
same way mutatis mutandis as those for bending 
moment, shearing force and load. 

Every Student of Applied Mechanics owes to Mr 
Bove}^ a debt of gratitude for the extreme simplicity 
of his deduction of a general proof of the Theorem of 
three moments. The chapter on pillars also contains 
original work on the Flexure of Long Columns. The 
subject of Bridges receives the attention its im- 
portance deserves, and pages devoted to it give a 



109 

peculiar value to the book which will be at once 
apparent. 

The difference in the results of stresses determined 
by assuming the line load to consist of a number of 
arbitrary concentrated weights and by the simple 
assumption that the line load consists of a uniformly 
distributed load, as determined by Waddell, amount to 
only two per cent. Mr. Bovey treats the question 
according to both assumptions. 

The tables of stresses in the different members of 
the truss will be found most useful. Details are fully 
dealt with, such as Nicholson’s efficiency of rivetted 
joints. 

Suspension bridges receive a separate consideration. 

The difficult subject of arches and arched ribs will 
warrant a diligent reading at the hands of the advanced 
Student or Engineer. 

The book is an original one in the commonly accepted 
sense, but credit is given where credit is due to Messrs. 
Nicholson, Carus Wilson, Findlay, Dawson, Peterson, 
Macdonald and J. M. Wilson. The reputation of Mr. 
Bovey is enhanced and the prestige of the University 
increased by the appearance of this admirable volume 

CONTRIBUTIONS 

THE UNIVERSITY OF FRANCE. 

France had twenty Universities under the Ancien Re- 
gimCy it has now but one. A short historical sketch 
will explain that transformation to our reader. 

I 

The name of Ufiiversitas was for the first time in the 
twelfth century specially applied to the community of 
masters and scholars of Paris. Philippe- Auguste gave 
to it its rules in 1200. Constituted as a kind of Republic 
in the Quartier Latin^ it enjoyed a privileged situation. 
The students could be arrested only by royal officers 
and were judged by ecclesiastical courts. Philippe de 
Valois granted to its members an exemption from all 
taxes. 

In 12 1 5, the University included four Faculties, — theo- 
logy, arls, law, medicine. The students were divided 
into four nations : France, Picardie, Normandie, Eng- 
land ; for the last one was substituted the nation of 
Germany under Charles VI. 

Endowed by the kings of France, the higher clergy 
and many grands seig iciirs, the University of Paris be- 
came a great institution. Her power increased with 
her wealth. Every reader of history knows the con- 
tests which she was enabled to sustain against either 
Kings or Popes. She always took the defence of the 
Gallican liberties in opposition to ultramontainism. 
Luther had offered, at the beginning of his quarrel 
with Rome, to abide by her decision. But she sided 
with the Catholic party, and condemned the Reforma- 
tion. She used to send deputes to the oecumenical 
councils and to the Etats Generaux of the kingdom 
During the religious wars, she endangered her position 
by taking the part of the Ligue, allied with Spain, in 
defiance of the royal authority. From the time of Henry 
IV, she lost tier political power. 

Her scientific influence decreased from other causes 



no 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



The chief, ones were : the competition of teaching orders 
such as the Dominicans, the Franciscans and the 
Jesuits; her extreme conservatism which tolerated no 
oth(ir than that of Aristotle ; and the persecutions which 
she directed against her opponents. In the XVIIIth, 
century she was an object of general contempt, the 
other Universities of France, having followed her steps, 
shared her fate. 

The revolutionary storm swept them away with many 
other institutions of the past By a decree of the Co 7 i' 
v€ 7 ition (20th March, 1794) they were all abolished. 

Napoleon I. created, between 1806 and 1808, the 
Universite de Fra 7 ice. In his hands she was to be an 
I 7 istru 77 te 7 itu 77 i reg 7 ii^ like the restored Roman Catholic 
church. To this end, he decided that to the State alone 
belongs the right of teaching, and he placed all the de- 
partments of instruction (primary, secondary and sup- 
erior) un ier the supervision of a Gra7id Maitre, 

II 

The main features of the Napoleonic creation are pre- 
served to the present time. To the Roman Catholic 
church, however, and to any qualified man liberty of 
teaching has been granted. But the State University 
alone can examine students and confer degrees. 

The Grand Maitre, now called Minister of Public, 
instruction, is assisted by a Co 7 iseil Superieur (since 1873^ 
The territory of France is divided into 1 7 Acadhnies, pre- 
sided over by a Recteur. The Recteur is assisted by a Co7i- 
sell AcadhTtique, Every Acad^mie possesses at least two 
Faculties (lettres et sciences); several academies possess 
four Faculties (lettres, sciences, droit, medecine); two of 
them (Paris and Toulouse) have, besides, a Protestant 
Faculty of Theology (Paris and Montauban). The 
Catholic faculties of Theology were suppressed a few 
years ago, their degrees being not required from the 
priests, while University degrees are obligatory for the 
pastors of the Reformed and Lutheran churches. 

To the Faculties alone belong the power of conferring 
degrees (bacealaifreat, licence, doctorat), the teaching 
of the Faculties of Arts (letters and sciences) corres- 
pond to a post graduate course in the best Universities 
of other lands, the professors — all appointed by the Min- 
ister of Public Instruction— deliver two series of lectures : 
one for the general public, free of charge ; the other 
more thorough, for the students who prepare their licence 
and doctorat. The Lycees and Colleges provide the 
education required for the degrees of Bachelier es LeL 
tres and Bachelier es SczeTices. The curriculum in- 
cludes classics, literature, modern languages, history, 
mathematics, physics, chemistry, natural sciences,- and 
other branches ; about eight years often months each 
preceded by five or six years in a primary school are 
necessary to complete the course of study. 

No student can enter any Faculty without the degree 
of Bachelier ^s Lettres (for letters, law and theology), 
or that of Bachelier 6s Sciences (for sciences and techni- 
cal schools), or both degrees (for medicine). Then he 
may proceed to take the other degrees conferred by the 
different Faculties (licence, doctorat). Three years are 
required for the licence in Law, two or three years for 



the same degree in Letters and Sciences ; five years for 
the degree of M.D. (no HccTice)] four or five years for 
the degree of Bachelor of Divinity. Examinations for 
the liceTice are very difficult ; some Faculties require also 
two printed theses, — one in Latin, the other in French* 
One printed thesis is necessary to obtain the degree of 
B.D. As for the doctorate, the requirements vary 
according to the Faculties. All require at least one book 
in French denoting original researches, and some (Let" 
ters. Theology) require further a Latin thesis, both 
printed and publicly sustained before the Faculty. 

Inspectors (g6n6raux et particuliers) visit regularly 
the schools of all orders, and report to the Minister of 
public instruction. 

It would be too long to speak of other educational 
establishments, such as the College de France, TEcole 
Polytechnique, I’Ecole Normale Superieure, I’Ecole de- 
Ponts et Chaussees, I’Ecole des Mines, TEcole Navale. 
Most of them do not belong properly to the University ; 
they are connected with different Universities (war, com- 
merce, public works, navy) ; as to the free Universities, 
only six Faculties have been opened since 1875 by the 
Roman Catholics, i.e., four faculties of Law, one of Let- 
ters, one of Sciences. 

Ill 

The reader may see, from what precedes, that the 
word University has no longer in France the meaning 
which it had formerly. The Uiiversite de France des- 
ignates public teaching in alii he departments of instruc- 
tion under the control of the State. Her organization 
being so different from that of other Universities, it is 
impossible to institute between them a comparison of 
any value. 

Let me state, however, as a matter of information : — 

1 ^ That the French degrees of Bachelier es Lettres 
and Bachelier es Sciences include about the same 
branches as the ordinary B.A. of McGill, with more, 
history, more written exercises, more classics for the 
first and more sciences for the second. 

2 ^ That medical studies are preceded by a higher 
literary and scientific culture and terminated by origi- 
nal work, besides the usual examinations. 

3^ That the Faculties of Law are provided with a 
great number of chairs, and exact a higher standard of 
literary preparation. 

4 ® That the professors are not overworked, having 
to deliver only from three to five lectures a week for 
seven or eight months. 

5 ® That the fees, heavy in the Faculties of Law and 
Medicine, are nominal in the others (Letters, Sciences, 
Theology). 

6 ^ That many scholarships (bourses), obtained by 
competition, are offered to students who prepare them- 
selves for professorial work. 

7 ^ That the great number of students has rendered 
competition (concours) unavoidable for the most humble 
position in the University. 

8 ° That no Faculty ever grants any degree Honoris 
causa. 

In conclusion, the University of France offers the 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



HI 



great advantage of preserving national unity by a uni- 
form curriculum, and of securing an equal value to the 
degrees conferred, her weak point is an extreme cen- 
tralization fatal to the development of individuality. 
This danger induced Monsieur Bourgeois, late minister 
of public instruction, to prepare a bill providing for the 
creation of five or six regional Universities. But it has 
not yet been discussed by the Parliament. 

Whatever may be thought of that system of educa- 
tion, let us not forget that modern France cannot easily 
modify it. On the one hand, she is passionately fond 
of unity ; on the other hand, she has reason to fear the 
hostile influence of the Roman Catholic church if the 
State abandoned its right of examining students and of 
conferring degrees. These facts must be taken into 
account in order to understand an institution so differ- 
ent from the Universities of other countries. 

D. COUSSIRAT. 



polysyllabic rhymes. 

We have but few rhymes of four syllables, and these 
are hardly made but by some whimsical and far- 
fetched expressions. Swift, who indulged himself in 
these trifles, will furnish an example : — 

For this, I will not dine with Agmondesham 
And for his victuals, let a ragman dish *em. 

Words accented on the fifth syllable from the end 
are extremely rare, and, of course, rhymes to them 
are nearly impossible to be found. I have met with 
a single instance : — 

Why did old Euclis take his only child, 

And shut her in a cloister reparatory ? 

Because she was a rebel whig, and wild. 

And he resolved to tame and keep her a iory.** 

But the verses of Swift, upon the ancient dramatic 
authors, exhibit the most extraordinary specimen of 
this sort of rhyme that the English language contains. 
He had superior abilities in rhyming, and he appears 
to have set himself down to this piece merely for the 
purpose of exerting them. 

“ I went in vain to look for Eupolis 

Down in the Strand, just where the new pole is ; 

For I can tell you one thing, that I can. 

You will not find it in the Vatican. 

He and Cratinus used, as Horace says, 

To take his greatest grandees for^asses, 

Poets in those days used to venture high ; 

But these are lost full many a century, 

Thus you may see, dear friends, pede hence, 

Thy judgment of the old comedians. 

Proceed to tragics ; first, Euripides 
(An author where I sometimes dip a-days) 

Is rightly censured by the Stagyrite, 

Who says his numbers do not fadge aright 
A friend of mine that author despises 
So much, he says the very best piece is. 

For aught he knows, as bad as Thespis’s# 

And that a woman, in these tragedies, 

Commonly speaking, but a sad jade is ; 



At least I’m well assured, that no folk lays 
The weight on him they do on Sophocles. 

But, above all, I prefer (Eschylus, 

Whose moving touches, when they please, kill us. 

And now I find my muse is ill able 
To hold out longer in trisyllable. 

Another exquisite rhyme occurs to me ; Butler, 
speaking of an apothecary, says : — 

Stored with deletery medicines, 

Which whosoever took is dead since.^^ 

H. M. 



SOME ASPECTS OF EDUCATION. 

The Annual Lecture delivered to the members of the Women’s 
Delta Sigma Society of McGill College, Dec., 1892, by Prof. 
Chas. E. Moyse. 

CONTINUED. 

Unfortunately, the style of Mulcaster, who, as I have 
said, gives us what may be the first schoolmaster’s 
reference to the study of English, is heavy and at times 
obscure. It would be interesting to present Elizabethan 
thought in its exact form by quotation. To do this we 
had better pass to the next generation, and here again 
all Mulcaster’s leading views are visible. Just thirty 
years later, then, in 1612, when John Milton was a little 
boy four years old, John Brinsley, the elder, the 
master of a school in Leicestershire that may be taken 
as a fair specimen of an average English grammar 
school in those days, touches on the study of English in 
prose which is clearness itself compared with the prose 
of Mulcaster. “ There seems unto me,” says Brinsley, 

to be a very main want in all our grammar schools 
generally, or in the most of them ; whereof I have 
heard some great learned men to complain : That there 
is no care had in respect to train up scholars so that they 
may be able to express their minds purely and readily 
in our own tongue, and to increase in the practice of it 
as well as in the Latin or Greek ; whereas our chief 
endeavour should be for it, and that for these reasons : i. 
Because that language, which all sorts and conditions of 
men amongst us are to have most use of, both in speech 
and writing, is our own native tongue. 2. The purity 
and elegancy of our own language is to be esteemed a 
chief part of the honour of our nation, which we all 
ought to advance as much as in us lieth. As when 
Greece and Rome and other.nations have most flourished! 
their languages also have been most pure ; and from 
those times of Greece and Rome we fetch our chiefest 
pattern for the learning of their tongues. 3. Because of 
those which are for a time trained up in schools there 
are very few which proceed in learning in comparison 
of them that follow other callings.” This is the modern 
case neatly set forth in brief— compressed into a nutshell- 
as we say. The English question, then, is an eterna, 
school question, and the method of remedying the 
defect alluded to by Brinsley was, so Brinsley said, to 
write more English — let there be continual practice of 
English in some form or other. 

In what I am about to say, I would Jhave it under- 
stood that I do not wish to bear hard on the teachers 
of English or the teachers of any other subject what 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



1 12 



ever. If fault is found with a school, the teacher of 
English scarcely ever seems to escape. But the teacher 
of English is often a victim, not an offender ; he is 
bound down to a system which deprives him of liberty 
of action. In these days when children are supposed 
to become omniscient about the age of fifteen, it would 
be strange indeed if the older training could not hold 
its own. sometimes, even in the matter of English. 
When one thinks of the classics and the modern lan- 
guages and the histories and the geographies and the 
mathematics and the numerous “ologies” that are let 
loose on a mind developing in a young body which in- 
sists on notice and care if it is to be developed wisel}' 
and well, and is not to contribute to human feeblenes.s, 
one is not surprised to hear a cry for fewer books, for 
more leisure, for more thought. And it is just possible 
that English suffers owing to so much being attempted 
But it seems possible so to educate a child in English 
that he could write a letter in simple prose, which, in 
the matter of expression, should satisfy a school board 
deliberating on the choice of a head-ma.ster. The facts 
are fiw and simple, and although the formal mode 
could not be expected from a child of twelve, a child of 
twelve might convey all the information required with- 
out blunder or blemish. Indeed, it may be suspected 
that English itself is the cause of bad English. Children 
who cannot spell ordinary words or write ordini ry 
English are worried at too early an age about abstract 
nouns and numerous classes of adverbs and conjunc' 
tions. Derivations which examiners expect and 
examiners ask are committed to memory, cnly to be 
forgotten for the most part as soon as the examination 
is over. Pages of rules are learnt by heart, but the 
constant application of rules to an interesting page of 
some English classic is neglected. The detaching of 
thought from thought,— in other words. Analysis,— an 
exercise which concerns English no more than it con- 
cerns any other language, since it gives a firm hold not 
merely on English construction, but also an equally 
firm one on the construction of Latin and Greek, is 
looked on as a dreadful thing of modern invention be- 
cause it bears a new scholastic name and has an exact 
vocabulary of its own. As soon as the functions, not the 
minute subdivisions, of the parts of speech are compre- 
hended, the learner is enabled to begin simple Analysis • 
and if he is in doubt as to his phrasing, he can often 
detect errors where detection was previously impossible 
Bad English spelling can be corrected only throuo-h 
good English spelling and good English spelling cmi 
be acquired only by the constant writing of exercises 
and constant reading. Constant reading will do a 
great deal gradually and insensibly, but firmly never- 
theless. Nor must it be forgotten that good dear pro- 
nunciation in the practical every day use of English 
would afford help in cases where words are pronounced 
as they are spelt. Not long ago I had to mark the dic- 
tation papers from a school which was not conspicuous 
for bad spelling. The majority of the candidates spelt 
brethren, bret/urn, and one might be inclined to infer 
that brethern was the general pronunciation of the word 
in the district where the school is situated ; but correct 



spelling in a few cases told against any such inference, 
and so the only conclusion .to be drawn was that the 
pronunciation of the reader proved superior to the spell- 
ing powers of the scholars If brethren had been pro- 
nounced correctly, it would have been spelt correctly. 
From what has been said, it may be gathered that too 
much attention is given to the mere memorizing of 
grammar rules, and that this practice is begun tco early. 
In fact, grammar beyond the elements should be made a 
comparatively late study. At any rate, there is a great 
deal of English teaching that n:ay be designated by the 
title dead formulas, so far as its bearing on the activi- 
ties of life and on sound education is concerned. This is 
particularly the case with what might be termed the 
historical side of the language’s, as taught in High 
Schools. It is interesting, of course, to know that such 
disguised compounds as barn, stirrup, orchard yield a 
great deal more than meets the eye, if they are only 
teased apart and examined ; that the simples whereof 
the compounds are made show barn to be a place where 
barley is stored ; stirrup, a rope for ascending; orchard 
a yard for vegetables, — a vegetable and not a fruit gar- 
den. Yet these are really curiosities, not staples. If 
the organism of English is to be treated historically, it 
must be done by means of language and not by means 
of grammar lists of Anglo-Saxon forms. A student 
who might be able to give the derivation of a classical 
word with assurance, owing to familiarity with the 
forms in classical languages, often produces impossibili- 
ties or talks nonsense when he is treading on the uncer- 
tain ground of Old English. If an examiner should ask 
in an elementary paper the older form of /, he is told 
that it is Ich, showing that the idea, once widely pre- 
valent that English is in .=>ome mysterious way or other 
derived from German, lurks in holes and corners yet ; or 
that / has alwa^-s been /because it is a primitive vowel 
sound ! Again, the word that\s quite correctly stated 
to be the neuter singular of the definite article se — that^ 
by the way, is known to be a favorite word with 
examiners — but the value of the answer is impaired in a- 
moment when the statement is made that that was 
always used as an article in Old English. The time 
will come when the study of the English language in 
its higher aspect will be put on a rational footing, and 
the subject approached from the right end and not from 
the wrong. The upper forms in some large schools 
both in Europe and America are being led down to 
modern English in a scholarly and scientific manner, 
and in a manner which may be made interesting from 
first to last. When it began to dawn on the scholastic 
mind that the English language had a history of more 
linguistic moment than sporadic references in gram- 
mars might imply, I cannot say. One of the first 
public schools to treat English as a language with an 
important history was the City of London School. In 
1866, the Rev. E. A. Abbott, the head master, introduced 
the historical study of English into school work, with 
a range extending back to Piers the Plowman. 

The derivation of classical words adopted b}’ English 
is, however, of some ;alue, because the clas.sical words 
used by science are so numerous and enfold so much. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



A medical man, who had no pretensions to classical 
scholarship, once told me that he had learnt a great 
deal of anatomy and histology from his Latin and Greek 
dictionaries. If the meaning of the component parts of 
words like azygos, epidermis, mesoblast, myolemma is 
known, a prominent fact is revealed in the structure of 
the words themselves, and the way towards anatomical 
or histological knowledge made so much the more 
speedy. But to use comparatively modern English 
authors, as they are often used, with the main view of 
treating etymologically any strange words that may be 
found in them, is to mistake their educational value 
altogether. Examiners are, as I have said, fond of 
picking out words and asking their source. It would 
be better if they would be content to see whether a 
young candidate can in most cases give the meaning 
simply, so that some idea may be formed as to whether 
the piece, whatever it is, has been read hastily, or care 
fully and intelligently. Still, the better class of schools 
do go beyond the few bare facts of a life of the authorf 
the bare outline of story or plot, and a bare list of fancy 
w'ords. The old Elizabethan method practised in the 
days of few books was the true one. Mind was 
developed and the faculties were exercised, — exercised, 
it may be said, on material that we can no longer employ 
but, after all, the cultured Elizabethan gentleman, to 
say nothing of the Elizabethan scholar, with his ready 
working knowledge of Latin and Greek and his pre 
ference, sometimes, of Italian to EnglLsh, would not 
find himself disgraced in modern company. A teacher 
like Roger Ascham, for instance, has a fine conception 
of what education is, of what education should effect. 
There is a gentle glow of enthusiasm that illuminates 
and warms Ascham’ s page when he views his classics 
as moral and intellectual gospels, capable of leading 
youth to high serious thought, to gentleness, to good 
breeding. No wonder that Lady Jane Grey wished to 
escape the “ pinches, nippes and bobbes ” of her parents, 
and to go to M. Elmer, “ who teacheth me soientlie, so 
pleasantlie with soch faire allurementes to learning, that 
I thinke all the tyme nothing whiles I am with him.’i 
Ascham, as all the world knows, once found Lady Jane 
Grey reading Plato’s Phaedon with as much enjoyment 
as a gentleman would find in a tale of Boccaccio, when 
her parents were hunting in the park. This seems 
extraordinary, exceptional ; yet Ascham has something 
to say about Elizabeth likewise. Of course, we expect 
to find even in Ascham the fashionable compliments 
paid to the queen. But if we are inclined to call 
his statement that Elizabeth, his pupil, both as 
princess and monarch, was perfectly ready in Italian, 
French and Spanish,— an exaggeration— to sayn othing 
about her devotion to Greek-we must come to a con. 
elusion that good results in education were known to 
our forefathers. Let the very web of the best English 
classics be displayed with simplicity and interest ; 
point out the meaning and the gracefulness of its varied 
designs, and then living forces will take the place of 
dead formulas ; not only so-the ability to write good 
English and to spell correctly will be strengthened. 
Now and then the effect of good English training is 
brought under the notice of the student of literature. 



II3 



Defoe is a case in point. His style is simple and strong, 
sometimes trenchant, for Defoe is a master in irony and 
invective. It is theair of simple reality that captivates 
us when we read Robinson Crusoe ; it is the air of 
reality which has caused his Journal of the Plague to 
be mistaken by some for the narrative of an eye witness. 
Defoe says that the teacher of the school in Newington 
Green to which he went, made his pupils “masters of 
the English tongue-'' The exercises there were written 
in English and not, as was the general custom, in a 
learned language. John Ruskin, again, is one of the 
modern masters in English. His style was formed early, 
and, as is well known, his mother proved his most effec- 
tive teacher. Of choice, he turned to Scott and Pope's 
Homer, but his mother insisted on his learning long 
chapters of the Bible by heart and the Scottish para- 
phrases as well. Let me quote. “Every sentence w^as 
required to be said over and over again till she was 
satisfied with the accent of it. I recollect a struggle 
between us of about three weeks, concerning the accent 
of the “of" in the lines 

Shall any following spring revive 
The ashes of the urn ? — 

I insisting, partly in childish obstinacy, and partly 
in true instinct of rhythm (being wholly careless on 
the subject both of urns and their contents), on reciting 
it with an accented of. It was not, I say, till after three 
^weeks' labour, that my mother got the accent lightened 
on the “off and laid on the ashes, to her mind. But had 
it taken three years, she would have done it, having 
once undertaken to do it. And assuredly had she not 
done it — well, there's no knowing what would have hap- 
pened ; but I'm very thankful she did. This maternal 
installation of my mind in that property of chapters, I 
count very confidently the most precious and, on the 
whole, the one essential part of all my education.’' 



ALONE WITH NATURE. 

The rain came suddenly, and to the shore 
I paddled and took refuge in the wood, 

And, leaning on my paddle, there I stood 
In mild contentment watching the downpour, 

Feeling as oft I have felt heretofore, 

Rooted in nature, that supremest mood 
When all the strength, the peace of solitude 
Sink into and absorb the being’s core. 

And I have thought, if man could but abate 
His need of human fellowship, and find 

Himself through Nature, healing with her balm 
The wounds of the world, and growing in her state. 

What might and greatness, majesty of mind, 

Sublimity of soul and godlike calm ! 

W. M. M. 

epitaphial inscriptions. 

(^Conclusion). 

The burial places of New England afford excellent 
opportunities for the prosecution of studies relating to 
epitaphs, which may, in most cases, be relegated with- 
out difficulty to one of the three classes given in our 
former article. As illustrative of the epitaphs 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



114 

employed by the educated, no better example could be 
chosen than one to be found in the cemetery at Kittery 
Point. The lines are dedicated to the memory of Levi 
Lincoln Thaxter, whose wife, Celia, is well known for 
her poetry. He is said to have been a devoted admirer 
of Browning, whose works he would read hour after 
hour seatedupon a boulder whose iron sides had been 
smoothed by many centuries of conflict with the ocean. 
This work now marks his last resting place, and, upon 
one of its smoothly cut sides are engraved the follow- 
ing lines from Browning : — 

Thou whom these eyes saw never, say friends true 
Who say my soul, helped onward by my song 
Though all unwittingly, has helped thee too? 

I gave but of the little that I knew : 

How were the gifts requited, while along 

Life’s path I page couldst thou make weakness strong, 

“ Help me with knowledge, for life’s old, death’s new : 

“ R.B. to L.L T., April, 1885.” 

Epitaphs may also serve as the record of real or 
fancied wrong of which the deceased was a victim, and 
the surviving friends have chosen this as the most 
efiective mode of public vindication. A most remark- 
able case of this kind occurs at Milford, N. H., as 
recorded in the Portsmouth Journal of Sept. 29th, 1888. 
It is as follows : — 

CAROLINE H. 

Wife of 

Calvin Cutter, M.D. 

Murdered by the Baptist Min- 
istry 61 Baptist Churches, as fol 
lows Sept. 28, 1838, ^t. 33. 

She was accused of Lying in 
Church Meeting, by the Rev. D. D. 

Pratt, 61 Deac. Albert Adams, was 
Condemned by the church un- 
heard. She was reduced to pov- 
erty by Deac. William Wallace. 

When an exparte council was 
asked by the Milford Baptist 
Church, by the advice of this com- 
mittee, George Raymond, Calvin 
Averin & Andrew Hutchinson, 
they voted not to receive any com- 
munication upon the subject ! 

The Rev. Mark Carpenter said 
he thought as the good old Deac . 

Pearson said “ we have got Cutter 
down and it is best to keep him 
down/’ The intentional and 
Malicious destruction of her 
Character & happiness as above 
described destroyed her life. 

Her last words upon the sub- 
ject were, ‘‘Tell the truth 61 the 
Iniquity will come out. 

Or again, the epitaph may be employed among this 
class, to serve as the medium of expressing religious 
sentiments and duty towards others. Two very 
remarkable instances of this kind have come under my 
notice. The first occurs in the old cemetery a t York, and 
relates to the infant daughter of the celebrated Parson 
Moody, who was so conspicuous a figure in the Louis 
burg expedition under William, afterwards Sir Wm. 
Pepperrell, and of whom Parkman speaks wore than 



once in his Half Century of Conflict. 'I'he epitaph 
was undoubtedly written -by Moody him.self, and is 
certainly characteristic of the man and the times in 
which he lived : — 

“ resurrection.” 

“To Immortality in spotless Beauty with all other 
Bodily Perfections, after the fashion of Christ’s 
Glorious Body is expected for the sub-adjacent 
Dust of Lucy Moody, who was born and died July 6th, 1705 
Thus birth, spousalsand Christ, Death Coronation, 

All in One Day, may have their celebration.,, 

The second instance was derived from Hast Franklin, 
Vermont. It is an epitaph written by the deceased, 
and is intended as a record of his religious views. It 
distinctly shows that he had no belief whatever, 
according to any of the recognized forms of religion, 
but it also shows that, however short he may 
have fallen in conformity to established forms and- 
creeds, he was, nevertheless, a disciple of the Great 
Master in his adhesion to the Golden Rule. The 
w’hole composition discloses great re.solution, indepen 
dence of thought, courage of conviction, and, with it all, 
a just regard for his fellow-men ; it is as follows : — 

“NAME AND SENTIMENTS.” 

All nature self existent powers invite, 

Life gives and takes forms, solves as adaptate, 

Virtue obeys, Vice disobeys her laws. 

In nature all good, this only evil draws 
No good or ill by supernatural cause. 

Let not imagination take its flight 
Upward to fancied regions for delight ; 

Science and virtue lead to happiness, 

Know’n truth, not fan tom faith, not bliss.” 

“ Dr. Luck,” 

“ Died ” 

“ 1858.” 

“ I have no fears because I’ve got 
No faith nor hope in Juggernaut. 

Nor Zoh, Grand Lama, Bond nor Zeus, 

Nor Bible systems without end ; — 

Nor alcoran nor Mormon’s views, 

Nor any creeds that priest dupes use. 

Each class self pure condemns the rest 
Enlightened minds the whole detest. 

In strongest faith no virtue lies. 

An unbelief no vice implies 
A bare opinion hurts no man. 

Then prove it hurts a God, who can ? 

To others do, to others give 

As you’d have done or would receive.” 

In the second group may be placea these eipitaphs 
which emanate from the middle or lower middle class, 
and from people of inferior culture and education. 
Here the tendency to epitaphs is very marked, and may 
be regarded as the survival of a practice which, in more 
primitive conditions of society and among ancient 
people, was a well recognized practice of the most 
highly cultured. 

The one aim is to express endearing sentiments of 
regard or to record the virtues of the deceased. In 
many cases there are attempts at original composition, 
when the results often bear witness to most lamentable 
failure with respect to all that constitutes true poeti 
eflFect and literary composition. 



McGTIJ. FORTNIGHTLY. 



US 



One example of this kind will suffice 

“ One’s languishing head is at rest, 

It’s thinking and aching are o’er, 

This great immovable breast 
Is heaved by affliction no more ; 

This heart is no longer the seat 
Of trouble and torturing pain, 

It ceased to flutter and beat, 

It never shall flutter again.” 

As illustrative of the third and last group numerous 
examples are to be found. Here the epitaph shows a 
rough and ready style which often typifies the people 
themselves. In the cemetery at Kittery Point, Maine 
there is one example 

‘‘ I lost my life on the raging seas, 

A sov’ reign God does as He please, 

The Kittery grounds they did appear, 

And my remains lie buried here.” 

At Milford, Connecticut, the following epitaph 
occurs : — 

‘‘ Sacred to the memory of Aunt Jane Bent, 

Who kicked up her heels and away she went.” 

As a final instance of this type, we may cite one from 
New London, Connecticut : — 

Beneath this monumental stone 
Lies half a ton of flesh and bone.” 

D. P. P. 

Montreai,, Jan., 1893. 



AN OLD COLLEGE LIBRARY. 

There is something delightfully fascinating in an 
old library ; the dust of years, the repose, the silent 
witness that the slumbering, rarely disturbed books 
present of the studious lives and strange lines of 
thought and interest of the generations long departed, 
all these bring to one a sensation that no modern' 
library, however great and rich and well arranged, can 
ever nearly invoke. 

It was my good fortune to know and to haunt one 
such library, and a short and {pace, Mr. Editor) slightly 
misleading note of a treasure- trove of mine in the same 
that appeared in the last number of the Fortnightly 
has brought vividly to my mind the old room in which 
I passed so many a Sunday afternoon in Sabbatical 
quiet. 

It is a long narrow room with rafters of the flattened 
arches type of the Tudor period, and with a row of 
arched two light windows on either side. From 
between the windows project the old carved oaken 
cases packed with books. Thus the library is cut up into 
a series of half a dozen, recesses or alcoves on either 
side. Each recesslined with books, and having still in the 
centre the original oak table and stool for the students 
save where new shelves to hold modern additions 
have been interpolated. The morning sun is shrouded 
from entering by the chapel and the buildings of the 
little cloistered court, along one side of which the 
library runs ; the afternoon sun slants almost harm- 
lessly in at the western window. 

When old John Alcock, Bishop of Ely, Henry the 



Seventh’s chancellor, was seized with the desire to carry 
his name and fame down to posterity, he built for 
himself a w^onderful tomb, which remains as one of the 
glories of his cathedral church ; and that he might yet 
further cause himself to be held in remembrance, he 
bethought himself of the University town within his 
diocese. He was a Yorkshireman and of a frugal 
mind; and there in Cambridge he saw his opportunity. 
Now-a days, perchance his actions would have been 
characterized, in this province at least, in pretty strong 
language, but this was years before the Reformation. 
On the outskirts of the town was an old nunnery erected 
by Malcolm of Scotland in the twelfth century. The 
nunnery had seen better days — and so had the 
nuns, who, reduced in numbers and besmirched in 
character, were dispossessed by the Bishop through a 
papal dispensation. The nunnery underwent slight 
alterations, consisting largely in the plentiful adornment 
of the buildings with the episcopal coat-of-arms, and 
now at a nominal cost the wily Bishop gained all the 
glory of being the founder of the College of the 
Blessed Mary the Virgin, St. John the Divine and the 
Glorious Virgin, St. Rhadegunde, commonly known as 
Jesus College — for so runs the title in every deed up 
to the present day. And this occurred in 1496. 

The few manuscripts of the Fathers and the service 
books of the old nunnery became the nucleus of the 
College library, which then, as a chamber, must have 
been disproportionately large for its contents. Never- 
theless the Bishop was far-seeing : the room was chosen 
for the future. In each light of each window he 
placed his rebus, which was to become the College crest, 

— a Chanticlere sable and proper standing on a globe 
or banded sable. I cannot truly say that the bird is 
regardant or otherwise, inasmuch as on many of these 
windows he is made what photographic and other artists 
term three-quarter face, and therein to the best 
of my belief take points from the Heralds. But 
Heraldry is not my forte, and to prevent doubt I may 
say that the crest is a bird of the black Hambro* 
variety perched upon a golden globe. In each light 
under the crest was an inscription lex canonica,” “ lex 
civilis,” “ ars medica,” “ Isaias,'* “ LuCa,” and so on, 
indicating the books to be found in each set of shelves, 
while from the beak of the chanticlere floated a label 
bearing an appropriate text. 

Some of the books at least were chained, though now d 
days but one of the old chains remains. In the course 
of the centuries also sundry of the stained windows 
have been removed to the College Hall, where the 
chanticleres are bound to be seen ; and as to the books, 
their arrangement has been profoundly modified, 
although still the works of Galen and Celsus are to be 
found in the recess dedicated to medicine, and theo- 
logical books in general fill the shelves under the four 
evangelists and the major prophets. 

To add to the individuality of the library, some 
travelled Fellow has presented in years gone by a 
rhinoceros’ horn, an ostrich’s foot, an elephant’s thigh- 
bone, and a large shell. Another, a seventeenth cen- 
tury addition is to be seen in a tall old worm-eaten 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



ii6 



case, with glazed front, behind which a curtain yellow 
with age shields from sight the college skeleton. 

“ Anatomies,” as dissections were then called, were rare 
in the seventeenth century, sets of bones for students’ 
use were still rarer, thus the college provided its men 
with the necessaiy" aid to the study of the human frame. 

Yet these are but superadded interests. The charm 
of an old librar}^ lies in the books, whether it be that he 
who haunts it is fond of early printing or rare editions, 
or bindings, or of books for what they contain. Here 
in the accumulation of close upon four hundred years 
all tastes can be satisfied. 

( To be CO 7 iti n tied, ) A . 

THE OTTAWA VALLEY GRADUATES’ 
SOCIETY OF. McGILL UNIVERSITY. 

For many years there was a growing feeling among 
the graduates of McGill University residing in the 
Ottawa Valley, that an association might be formed 
which would have for its main object — the interest of 
our common Alma Mater and the social intercourse of 
the various members of such an organization. 

The points of contact between a graduate and his 
Alma Mater, up to a few }^ears ago, were very few and 
far between, so that hundreds of the McGill men 
throughout Canada knew not what was going on, what 
progress McGill was making, nor what advantages 
might be derived by united and concerted action on 
her behalf 

Acting in a manner and spirit contrary to the sepa- 
ration of Alma and graduate, the “ Sons of Gilcol” 
residing in the Ottawa Valley and at the capital as 
a centre resolved to form themselves into an associa- 
tion. 

It was on the 20th of March, 1890, that some thirty- 
one graduates of McGill met in the Russell House, 
Ottawa, and created the Society, which is now in a 
flourishing condition. 

The following is the list of the graduates end the 
various faculties they represent who met together on 
that occasion : — 

Sir James A. Grant, ^ K C.M.G., M.D., etc.; Henry 
P. Wright, M.D.; R. W. Ells. LL.D.; Robert Bell, M.D., 
B.App.Sc.; Honore Robillard, M.D.; R. W. Powell, 
M.D.; H. Beaumont Small, M.D.; W. C. Cousens, M.D.; 
W. H. Klock, M.D.; David MacLaren, B.A., M.D.; 
Rev. S. Rondeau, B.A.; Frank Scott, M.D.; R. A. 
Kennedy, B.A., M.D.; John Thorburn, M.A.; J. S. J. 
Routhier, B.A.Sc.; A. P. Low, B.A.Sc. ;T. D. Green, 
B.A.Sc ; J. McEvoy, B A.Sc. ; C. J. H. Chipman, M.D.; 
John R. Church, M.D.; Robert A. Klock, B A., B.C.L.; 
Jeffrey H. Burland, B.A.Sc.; G. F. Calder, B.A , 
(Lachute) ; Allan G. Ingalls, B.C.L-; W. R. Kenny, 
B.C.L.; Geo. C. Wright, B.A., B.C L ; Robert Cassels, 
B.A.; P. D. Ross, B.A.Sc.; D. B. Dowling, B.A. Sc.; 
Henry M. Ami, M.A. 

The Society was organized that evening, and has 
since that time been gradually adding to its memb ership 
and brought together a band of men whose interest in 
their Alma Mater has been growing as the glowingnews 
of her progress and advancement has reached us, whilst 
it has given the University a status and prominence in 



the community which it scarcely had before, and the 
officers of the Society have become so many workers in 
the interest of McGill’s welfare. 

The membership roll numbers over szxfy, whilst the 
Secretary has a list of upwards of one hundred and 
twenty-five graduates of McGill, who reside in the 
Ottawa Valley and district whose Eastern limit reaches 
Montreal and its Western boundary skirts the shores 
of Lake Nipissing. Members from North Bay, Klock 
Mills, Fitzroy Harbor, Renfrew, Aylmer, Hull, Ottawa, 
Chelsea, North Gower, Merrivale, Buckingham, Lachute 
and other localities have already attended the meetings 
of the Society. 

The following is a list of the first officers and coun- 
cil of the Society drawn from the Minute Book 

189c- 91. 

Honorary-President — The Rt. Hon. Sir John A. 

Macdonald, LL.D., etc. 

President — Sir James A. Grant, M.D., C.M , etc. 

Vice-Presidents — i. D. H. P. Wright. 

2. Robert Cassels, B.A., Q. C. 

3. Robt. A. Klock, B.A., B.C.Iv 

Treasurer — Jeffrey H. Burland, B.A Sc. 

Secretary — Henry M. Ami, M.A. 

Council R. Bell, B.A.Sc., M.D. 

R. W. Powell, M.D.,C.M. 

Rev. S. Rondeau, B.A. 

Geo. F. Calder, B.A. 

Geo. C. Wright, B.A., B.C.L. 

John R. Church, M.D. 

Foremost amongst the promoters of this Society at 
the outset was Mr. J. H. Burland, who has been for so 
many years a worthy representative fellow for the 
Faculty of Applied Science on the Board of Corpora- 
tion. 

It was he who presided at its first meeting and who 
helped in various ways in placing it on the footing upon 
which it now stands. 

The Society has an executive which meets as often 
as necessity requires, and with the sanction of the Cor- 
poration of McGill selects examiners for the June Matri- 
culation local examinations, whilst it has done a great 
deal in disseminating McGill literature , and answered 
many enquiries regarding studies in the various faculties 
in which McGill can so rightly boast. 

About twenty graduates from Ottawa attended the 
great University Banquet of 1891, when for the first 
time in the history of Canada, the State, represented 
by His Excellency the Gov. General, the Premier Sir 
John MacDonald and many other prominent politicians, 
recognized higher education, and gave their generous 
Support to its aims and aspirations. 

Our Society is not yet three years old, but the older 
we get and the ottener we meet, the more we see there 
is to be done and that we can do on behalf of McGill. 
Just as the mighty and grand river flows in an easterly 
direction past the capital, carrying on its bosom the 
product of forest, mine and stream to the great com- 
mercial metropolis of Canada, so there seems to be the 
natural flow of students toward McGill and Montreal, 
where University life and its incomparable advantage 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



to all who attend its courses are of such great import to 
the individuals and to the State . 

Next month the Ottawa Valley Graduates Society 
meets, and will discuss a number of interesting topics. 
The constitution, by-laws and prospectus pf the Society 
is novv being printed, and will shortly be issued. 

Last May the Society held a most successful banquet 
at which Sir Wm. Dawson, Dr. T . We.sley Mills, and 
representatives from Toronto, Queen’s, Victoria, Laval, 
etc., were present. But more anon. 

HENRY M. AMI. 

TIM O’GALLAGHER. 

Recited by Mr. D. Guthrie, B.A., at the Science Concert in 
the Windsor Hall.) 

Me name is Tim O’Gallagher, — there’s Oirish in that same ; — 
Me parients from the Imerald Oile beyant the Ocean came. 

Me father came from Donegal, me mother came from Clare, 

But oi was born in Pontiac, besoide the Belle Riviere. ‘ 

Oi spint me choildhood tamin’ bears and fellin’ timber traas. 
And catchin’ salmon tin fate long and doin’ what oi plaze. 

Oi got me iddication from the Riverind Father Blake ; 

He taught me Latin Grammar and he afther taught me Grake, 
Till oi could rade the classics in a distint sort of way — 

’Twas the sadetoime of the harvist that oi’m rapin’ ivry day. 

Me parients thought me monsthrous shmart— of thim ’twas 
awful koind, 

And where oi’d go to College now was what perplixed their 
moind. 

So they axed the Riverind Father Blake what varsity was best 
To make a docther, bachelor, and lawyer and the rest. 

Said Father Blake, “ If oi must make decision faith oi will : 
Sure, sind the boy to Munthreal, there’s none loike Ould 
McGill.” 

So oi came to Munthreal and found McGill one afthernoon, 

And saw a great excoited crowd all shoutin’ out of tune ; 

And in the cintre thorty min was foightin* jist loike mad, 

And two big fellows on the top of one poor little lad. 

Oi turned indignant to the crowd and tould thim to their face, 

“ Ye pack of coward savages onciviloized and base, 

To stand and see two stalwart min abusin’ one that way ; 

Oi loike a gladiatorial show, but loike to see fair play.” 

So oi jumped in the arena and oi caught thim by the shirt. 

And oi knocked their hids together and consoigned thim to the 
dirt. 

Oi was removed and they were carried heme, but all the same 
Though Ould McGill was tw o min short, she won that Football 
Game. 

They thought oi was a funny chap, and when they played agin. 
They put me in the scrimmage . We got thorty-foive to tin. 

Thin oi wint up to College whin the lictures would begin ; 

Oi took notes of ivry licture — when oi happened to be in ; 

Got me w’ork up, kipt me note-books in the illigintest shape; 
Oi took notes of ivry licture — barrin’ whin oi was ashlape. 

But och ! oi troy to do me bist, for sure it’s Father Blake 
As says the foinist Faculty is Arts, and no mistake. 

For they they tache Philosophy and English Litherature, 

And Mathematics also and the classic authors sure. 

Oi lamed the Gracian poethry, oi lamed the Latin prose, 

Oi know as much about thim both as me professor knows : 

How Hannibal wint shloidin’ and how Caysar loiked his Gaul ; 
How Socrates did Athens in his noight-shirt— that was all. 

How Xerxes wept because his army soon would pass away, 

And Alexander wept because there were no more to shlay. 

How Brutus dhropped his partner and dissolved the Roman firm, 
And Caysar wasint mayor agin— jist for another term? 



II7 



Oi’d the honor of a mornin’ with an influential Med., 

And he took me to the room in which they mutilate the dead. 
Oi don’t object to crack a skull or spoil a purty face. 

But to hack a man what’s dead is what oi called extramely base. 
But all pursonal convictions, he explained, should be resoigned 
For the binifit of scoience and the good of human koind ; 

And though oi don’t at all admoire their ways of goin’ on, 

Oi’ll take a course in Midicine, oi will, before oi’m gone. 

Oi saw the Scoience workshops too, and thought whin oi was 
made, 

These little hands were niver mint to larn the blacksmith trade. 
And for that ilictricity, the thing what gives the shock, 

They collared old Prometheus and chained him to a rock 
For a playin’ with the loightnin’ and a reachin’ to the skoies, 
And the vultures gnawed his vittles and the crows picked out 
his oyes. 

But toimes has changed, and larnin gives us power, don’t you 
see, 

And whin oi’m done with Arts oi’ll take that splindid Faculty, 
For sure it’s from their worshops that the solar system’s run ; 
Besoides, they make the wither too and rigulate the sun. 

Oi troied exams at Christmas, and oi didn’t pass at all, 

But oi can have another whack at thim nixt Spring and Fall. 

In toime oi’ll pass in ivrything, and study all they tache ; 

Oi’ll go through ivry Faculty and come out head in aiche. 

And whin oi’ve studied all, loike Alexander oi will soigh 
There is no more to master, and oi’ll lay me down and doie. 
They’ll bury me with honors and erect in me behalf 
A monumint which shall display the followin’ epitaph : — 

Here loies shwate Tim O’Gallagher, — sure he had wits 
to shpare, — 

His father came from Donegal, his mother came from 
Clare. 

He was a shplindid scholar, for he studied at McGill ; 
He drank the well of lamin’ dhroy (and faith he got 
his fill). 

Was niver mortal craythur lamed to such a great 
degree, — 

B.AM.A.M.D-C.M.B.Sc.LL.D. 

Cap’n. Goun. 



ARTS’ DINNER 

“ Happy w’e’'^ been a’ thegither, ’ 

Happy we’ve been yin an’ a” 

Time shall find us a’ the blither 

When we rise to gang awa*.” — burns 

On Friday evening, the 27th ult., the Arts Dinner 
took place ; to say that it was a success would be but 
slightly describing the glorious event. At about 8.15 
o’clock the professors and students, marching in with 
the glowing strains of sweet music greeting them, 
comfortably filled the Ladies’ Ordinary of the Windsor 
Hotel, and a sumptuous repast such as the Windsor is 
celebrated for was begun and had justice done it. The 
menu card was very tastefully gotten up with appro- 
priate and widely chosen quotations. The toasts were 
well arranged, and though the proposers generally 
dwelt too long on their remarks, it can safely be said 
that all were admirably given and admirably replied 
to. 

Mr Chas. Mansur, Arts *93, president of his year, 
presided, having on his right our most worthy Dean Dr. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



1 18 



Johnson, Prof. Coussirat and Lecturers Messrs. Gregor 
and Messenger ; on his left, Profs. Cox and Adams, and 
sessional lecturer Mr. N. Evans. After the first part 
of the menu was agreeably disposed of the Toasts were 
dealt with. Mr. Mansur in a few adequate remarks 
opened the proceedings, in which he made a heartfelt 
reference to Sir William Dawson, whom he hoped 
would soon be amongst us with renewed vigor ; in the 
course of his toast The Queen ” he spoke loyally, and 
launched out against t’.ie political and civic corruption 
in Canada. Dr. Johnson in responding also paid a feel- 
ing tribute to Sir William, and regretted his absence. 
He in the course of his remarks referred to the Queen 
as the ultimate foundre.ss of McGill, and said how at 
Dublin, even to the present day, grace at Trinity 
College is said to Queen Elizabeth its foundress ; he 
also mentioned that students of the University would 
have to spend at least two years in Arts, and that this 
arrangement was approved of by the Deans of the 
respective Faculties, thus showing the need of such a 
change. After other well chosen rem.arks he sat down 
amid cheers and “ He’s a jolly good fellow.” The next 
toast was that of ’Sister Universities,” which Mr. 
MahafiFy ’93 proposed in a capable and witty manner, 
making some pointed remarks as to the professors 
being selfiopiniated in that they do not appreciate on 
examination papers original answers: this he men 

tioned as one of the trials of all students ; he also spoke 
forcibly of our aims. Messrs. McDougall and Peck 
responded for Toronto and Queen’s respectively, the 
former paid a glowing tribute to McGill, and made a 
pleasant sj:eech j the latter was full of repartee and wit 
in his anecdotes, and spoke of the friendly relations 
between Queen’s and McGill. After this the Arts 
Song was sung by Mr. F. J. Day, Arts ’94, and all 
heartily joined in the chorus. All were delighted with 
it and Mr. Day’s rendering. The composition reflects 
great credit upon Mr. W. M MacKeracher, the com- 
poser, and Mr. Coates who adapted the music to it. 
It is The ’ Faculty song par excellence. 

Alma Mater, O seat of Arts renowned throughout 
the world,” fell to the lot of Mr. Ireland, ’94, who ably 
acquitted himself. He poured forth praises on Mc- 
Gill’s educational work especially as .seen in Arts. Dr. 
Adams in reply made one of the best speeches of the 
evening. Giving a short sketch of McGill’s history, in 
which he stated the amusing incident concerning the 
beginning of the Redpath Museum, when Dr. (now Sir) 
William Dawson entered in charge, he asked to see the 
collection, and was informed by the Registrar that there 
was no collection, but that a few days since a gentleman 
had left one fossil ; such was the nucleus of the present 
great collection. He also spoke of the lack of original 
work ; though Sir William in his spare moments had 
accomplished much in original research besides 
geology, no other research was made, and he hoped the 
time would soon come when McGill would be known 
for original research ; he also spoke of a higher school 
and university standard, and that in the latter fewer 
subjects would be taught and greater options allowed. 

Then a chorus was heartily rendered. Mr. David 



T. Davis, ’94, then proposed ‘‘Sister Facnlties,” ad- 
vocating closer union among the sisters and a Univer- 
sity dinner. The representatives from Law, Medicine, 
Science and Comparative Medicine, Messrs. Carmichael, 
Lindsay, Laurie and Cleaves, respectively, ably re- 
sponded. Then followed a song by Mr. Mahafiy, which 
was greatly applauded. Mr. A. MacVicar, ’93, then 
proposed the “Professors” in an animated style, 
making a good speech, and Prof. Cox responded in 
one of the leading toasts of the occasion, favoring 
closer relations betw'een professors and students and 
touching on the pleasures of College life ‘‘ College 
Societies ” was propo.sed by Mr. E. E. Howard, ’95, and 
replied to by Messrs. W. Donahue ’93 (Literary), F. J. 
Day ’94 (Y. M. C A.,) W. L- Bond ’94 (Athletic), all 
making happy speeches which space will not allow to 
be given, Mr. A.W. Duclos ’94 then gave a song which 
was highly appreciated. ‘‘Graduating Year” was 
proposed by W. G. Turner ’94, and replied to by W. 
Patterson ’93. “Freshmen” by F. W. Gilmour ’95, 
replied to by P. T. Mullen ’96. These last toasts were 
capably given and replied to ; this ended the regular 
list of Toasts, as it was nigh on to 2.30 a.m. ; the pro- 
fessors had taken their departure. A number of other 
toasts : The New Professors, Graduates Society, 
President, Committee, were given. Mr- Falconer in 
reply to the toast proposed to the McGill Graduates 
Society gave a somewhat detailed but yet interesting 
account of the aims and workings o^that Society, con- 
veying much useful information that was appreciated. 
Shortly before 3 a.m. the dining hall was left, and Arts 
’93 Dnner was a thing of the past. 

“whiffs beteen courses.” 

The committee, Messrs. J. W. A. Hickson, W. 
Patterson, W. L- Bond, W. M. MacKeracher, J. E. 
Hickson, R. H. Rogers, S. Archibald, W. G. Turner, ' 
deserve great praise for their skillful management of 
aflfairs. 

Does Comparative Medicine still “ wield the jaw- 
bone ?” It seemed to talk humanly enough, though 
perhaps faulty in biblical characters. 

The music was happily rendered by the orchestra, 
but it struck me the drum was kind of knocked out, 
probably the porter injured it carrying it in. Why 
that surprised look, surprised even to disgust, on the 
waiter s face when a glass of w’ater was requested ? 
Could it be “ omne ignotum pro mag7iifice est f" 

Anecdotes, old and young, though age predominated, 
were mingled promiscuonsly. 

CONVIVA. 



Donalda Columns. 



alumnae work. 

I wonder how many of your readers know of the 
existence of a cosy, comfortable corner of a ‘‘ Girls ’ 
Club and Lunch Room’’ situated iu the ” down town” 
regions of the heart of this great metropolis. 

The fountain-head of the best scientific and literary 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



119 



work ot the city is also the source from whence this 
philanthropic educational establishment has derived its 
life and energy. The“ Alumnae of McGill University 
are its managers, and any girl working during the day 
is invited to became a patroness. 

Although the interest of the “ girl-graduate ’ ' has 
turned from the college work which formerly filled her 
horizon to that which in special lines afterwards 
becames her personal life-work (and most of them have 
undertaken serious work), the spirit of a common bond, 
not only of intellectual but of human sisterly sympathy, 
has retained its hold upon her, and is evidenced in the 
existence of the “ Alumnae Society.” This Society has 
its regular monthly meetings for the discussion of 
literary topics, and a monthly business meeting to 
supervise the management and internal economy of the 
little house on Jurors st. This house. No. 47, has been 
ooen since May, 1891, under the name of “ Girls' Club 
and Lunch Room,” and there, between the hours of 
twelve and two, a substantial meal is offered for the 
modest sum of eight or ten cents. These are the so- 
called “ ticket dinners”. By purchasing forty or fifty 
cents worth of tickets, a girl can get five good dinners, 
which, if the dishes were bought d la carte^ would cost 
respectively forty-eight or fifty-eight cents. 

To days’s menu is as follows : — 



Vegetable soup and bread 3c. 

Roast beef and potatoes 6c. 

Mashed turnips 2c. 

Baked beans 3c. 

Apple pudding 3c. 

Stewed prunes 3c. 

Bread and butter 2C. 

Tea, coffee or milk 2c. 



A competent cook and housekeeper resides on the 
premises, and each month a different person undertakes 
the marketing, provides variety in the bill of fare, and is 
responsible for having two girls each day on hand to 
serve their hungry sisters over the country. The prices 
make it impossible for us to accumulate an i mmense for- 
tune, but, on the other hand, w^e by no means give th 
food away. Indeed, since the month of October, our 
bank book has shown a small balance on the right side, 
and before long we hope to stand alone, although our 
young limbs may tremble and totter occasionally with 
” growing pains,'’ and feel alack of confidence in their 
slowly increasing strength. We have been put on 
our feet by our own persistent efforts and the sub- 
stantial encouragement of friends whom we have 
interested in the scheme. As many as seventy girls 
have at one time taken advantage of the home dinners 
offered them, but the average number during the past 
year has been about forty. We attribute this com- 
paratively small number of customers out of the hun- 
dreds of girls who are working in and about this dis- 
trict, to the simple fact of our house being too small— we 
cannot comfortably accommodate any more. We attend 
the arrival of a perhaps phantom ship of good fortune 
before trying our wings and flying to some larger and 
more commodious quarters. 

There is a reading-room and library of over two 
hundred books in connection with the Club, and we 



meet on Monday evenings to master the mysteries ol 
the act of dress making, for, you know, under the pre- 
sent regime, as a government clerk has put it, ” a 
woman in office ought to be ashamed if she does not 
make every article of her own wearing apparel except 
her boots.” Yet tailors have always been men; and 
if a woman should build her own dresses, which is 
feminine work, after the day's bread-winning, why 
should not a man spend his evenings cheerfully cutting 
out and making his bifurcated apparel ? In our dress- 
making classes, we are perhaps encouraging what may 
be a species of evil, at all events a species of mistake, 
for I can see the day when working women will not 
need to diffuse their energies in mastering twenty 
trades, and thereby lose a place in the front ranks of 
what is especially their life work. 

Higher wages are needed to bring concentration of 
energy and interest, and as a result better work ; and 
when the shop girl is paid as much as the man sewing 
beside her, both perhaps with others at home dependent 
on them, she can then have her evenings for health and 
recreation, do her next day's work better than she does 
now, and as well as the man beside her who has not 
had to get up and make the breakfast, nor spend the 
evening previous at work on his small brother's coat 
and pants. 

Here girls who pay a small club fee to belong to the 
dressmaking class and for the privilege of taking out 
books from the library have a social time once a 
month, when the graduate in charge provides some 
entertainment. 

During the month of September a singular species of 
amusement was introduced into our midst. The news- 
papers at that time teemed with news of Corbett and 
Sullivan, and one morning our back yard, which is 
ours in common wdth seven other tenants, was con- 
verted into a scene of excitement and bloodshed. 
Stakes had been driven into the four corners, and a rope 
was fastened taut from one to the other. In the 
middle of this improvised ring, two young aspirants 
for boxing fame, of about eleven and thirteen years of 
age respectively, were giving one another wicked 
lefts '' ( is that the term ?) with a gusto which it is im- 
possible for me to describe. After a few “ rounds,'' two 
others took their place until disturbed by the unappre- 
ciative McGill girls, whose education in this line had 
been sadly neglected. It seemed funny at first, but 
little Johnny's nose w^as quite smashed up, and one of 
Billy's eyes had disappeared beneath a darkening 
shadow wLich threatened total eclipse. Threats of 
police proved effective, so time was called. We learned 
afterwards that this was only a preliminary practice 
that the real event came off in the afternoon. Tickets 
were sold at the lane entrance, and the back galleries 
filled to overflowing with friends of the repaired 
Billy and Johnny who were again to the fore. This 
time, alas ! no stern-voiced maiden w^as on hand to force 
the fighting fiends to flee ; and the fun ” lasted till 
some meddlesome woman — by the bye, I think she was 
the mother of Billy ; yes, she was — until Billy's mother 
came and brought him home, rather the worse for his 
afternoon “ in the ring.” 



1 20 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



With the exception of such incidental excitements 
we lead a quiet and orderly life. The day may come 
when we can have a fine college settlement building 
down town, where enthusiastic McGill women may 
live and work among their less fortunate sisters. We, 
present workers, hope to be of the day and of the work 
in its more useful and elaborate development. 

As it is, the work, stands on its own merits, and 
needs, I think, no recommendation from one of its 
chief supporters to gain the approval and possible sup- 
port of our many McGill friends and connections. 



After graduating last April, the Donaldas of ’92 met, 
elected a Secretary, and promised to communicate with 
each other, at least once a year. Always noted for keep- 
ing their word, this has been faithfully done, as the 
following lines show : — 

“ In taking up my well worn pen to-night 
The promised letter briefly to indite, 

Among the many thoughts that wildly throng 
The cells and tissues of my brain among, 

Is one that fills my soul with pride and glee. 

I have the joy and privilege to be 
One of the noble ten of ’92, 

Renowned alike for brains and beauty too. 

Our bond of friendship time shall never sever. 

We shall be comrades still, for aye, for ever. 

But oh ! alas ! that cruel fate should part 
Those who are bound, so closely, heart to heart. 

That we, who trod the flowery paths together, 

Of learning fair, in sad or smiling weather, 

Plucking the dainty flowers of rhetoric, 

Though often pricked with briars of logic, 

Should now no more together at the spring 
Of learning drink, nor hear sweet Horace sing. 

Those days with joy and bliss untold were fraught, 

Alas ; that they have vanished into naught, — 

But though we cannot see each others’ face. 

Though of us but a few the old halls grace. 

Still are the ties of friendship all as firm 
As when we watched the pale Amoeba squirm 
Beneath the microscope, or read of leeches, 

And tried to understand the growth of peaches. 

Or when with rapturous glow our hearts did swell 
At the heroic deeds of Charles Martel . . 

But I must curb my Pegasus’ wild flight 

For soon will swift-shod morn o’ertake the night. 

Moments are precious, each a golden nugget, 

And I must hasten onward. — “ Tempus fug(g)it.” 

Enough of retrospect — away regret ! 

Unto a merrier tune my lyre I’ll set. 

Bright hope doth touch the strings,— a joyous strain 
Peals forth— ‘‘ Some time we all shall meet again.” 

Once more, perchance, the festal board around 
Shall youth and learning sit, and the sweet sound 
Of laughter greet the ear of him who roams 
Anear the door with tuneful note of combs. 

Kind fortune, hold for us such joy in store. 

And we will sing thy praises ever more ! 

And now, sweet friends, I needs must say. Adieu, 

May the new year bring all good gifts to you. 

Did wishes bring their own fulfillment, then 
You would be happy beyond mortal ken . 

But since that I am poor in all but love. 

Take that, ’an’ ye will, and may the future prove. 

In spite of all that scornful men may say, 

Girls’ friendships last for ever and for aye.” 



SPORTING COLUMN. 

HOCKEY. 



At the Cry.stal Rink, January 19th, the third match 
of the intermediate hockey league series took place 
between McGill and Sherbrooke on the Crystal Rink 
Play was to have commenced at 9 o'clock, but owing 
to the late arrival of the train the Sherbrooke boys did 
not put in an appearance until after that hour, con 
sequently it was 9 35 when the referee called the men 
into line. The following are the teams and their posi- 



tions : — 

m’gili.. 

Lewis Goal . . 

Dawes Point. , 

Bickerdike C. point . 

Reid I 

Beckett 

Massey 

Smyth 



Forwards. 



SHERBROOKE. 

Odell. 

Lloyd. 

Bonnallie 

McKechnie 

Cross. 

Abbot. 

Robins. 



Referee — Stewart McQuisten. 

Umpires— J. S. Oostigan, John Gordon. 

Timekeepers — H. Baker, C. Buck. 

The first half commenced with a heavy rush on the 
visitors’goal, and for a time O’Dell was kept busy doing 
battle with the numerous hot shots which were poured 
in from the University team. Occasionally the puck 
was drawn out and forced to the opposite end, only to 
be returned again in short order. The entire half hour 
was fast play, with but few faces, McGill making a 
goal by oflf-side play, which was not allowed. 

After the ten minutes’ rest the second half opened 
with much more brilliant team play than the first, and 
for a time looked favorable for Sherbrooke, but McGill 
was too swift for them, and Sm}'th scored the first game 
for Old McGill. 



From the face the puck travelled from end to end 
with a rush, and when near the Sherbrooke goal got 
off the ice. Lloyd claims it w'as knocked into the ice, 
and as the whistle did not sound, Dawes got it and 
passed it through the goal, seoring the second game for 
McGill. Then came a squabble, Sherbrooke “ kicked,” 
and would not play unless he game was disallowed and 
the puck faced. The referee claimed no face, and cour- 
teously allowed the Sherbrooke men ten minutes to 
resume play. They did not .seem to see their way clear 
to do this, and McQuisten awarded the match to the 
College. 

ANOTHER WIN FOR MCGILL. 



There was a large crowd at the Quebec rink last 
Friday night to witness the intermediate match bet- 
ween the Quebec team and the University flyers. The 
match was an interesting one, the play being very 
fast, but our men were in better condition and played a 
much cleaner team game than their opponents, and 
won a hotly contested match by 3 goals to 2. 

The teams were as follows : — 

McGill. 

S. Lewis Goal 

R- Reid Point 

F. Bickerdike Cover point 

E. Archibald Forward 

F. Beckett « 

A Massey « 

W. Smyth 



Quebec. 

A. Colby 

W. C. Baldwin 
. ..W. D. Oliver 

A. Laurie 

H.Shaw 

Hugh Scott 

Norton 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



21 



H. L. Janes, J. Dunbar, umpires; H. Carbray, timekeeper; 
D. Watson, referee. 

McGill did not seem to be so fa<.t or so sure on their 
skates as Quebec, but they more than made up for it 
by their superior passing. Quebec took the two first 
games in 17 minutes and then their lack of condition 
began to tell, although they still continued to make it 
hot for McGill. The latter, however, had an excellent 
goalkeeper, and many dangerous shots were stopped 
Then McGill took the offensive and scored two games 
before half time expired. In the second half McGill 
made another attack on the Quebec goal and scored a 
game in seven minutes, making the score three games 
to two. After this they remained for the greater part 
on the defence, and Quebec could not break through. 
Matters remained in this position till the finish. 

For the College, Smyth played a great game among 
the forwards ; Bickerdike was very valuable at Cover ; 
and Lewis put up his old reliable game between the 
flags. 

BANJO CLUB CONCERT. 

We are very glad to be able to extend our hearty 
congratulations to the members of the Applied Science 
Banjo Club, on the success of their first annual concert, 
which took place on Friday evening, Jan. 20th. 

The Windsor Hall was well filled, especially in the 
reserved portion, with a very appreciative audience, 
who encored each item on the programme in turn, and 
went away expressing great surprise that so young a 
club should be so successful in its first venture. One 
of the most attractive features of this concert was the 
fact that for the first time in the history of McGill did 
students of a sister University cross the line as guests 
of a McGill organization, and assist in an entertain- 
ment of any kind. 

The U. V. M. Students, from Burlington, Vt., during 
their short stay in Montreal, have made many friends, 
and have left none but the best impressions behind 
them ; their individual as well as their excellent club 
work on Friday night have served to add many friends 
and fair admirers to their list. 

To criticize the programme in detail would perhaps 
be out of place here, but especial mention may be made 
of the ‘‘ Kullerd Koon’s Kate Walk,” and “ Schneider’s 
Band,” which were the most popular instrumental and 
glee selections rendered by the Burlington clubs, the 
latter receiving a double encore. For the home club, 
Mr. Parker’s solos on the banjo were most deservedly 
popular, his execution on that instrument being only 
equalled by the artistic manner in which he had com 
posed and arranged his selections. Of the concerted 
pieces the “ Donalda Galop” was the favorite instru- 
mental selection, and in the solo with vocal accompani- 
ment from “ Robin Hood” Mr. Ramsay’s fine bass voice 
was heard to advantage. 

A pleasant break was made in the musical pro- 
gramme by introducing a reading by Mr. Guthrie, 
whose intelligent delivery of an amusing poem on 
“ The Freshman,” written by an undergraduate in Arts, 
received an enthusiastic encore. 

The Banjo Club certainly has a bright prospect be- 



fore it, Judging from its success so far ; but it is to be 
hoped that in any future efforts it will receive at least 
a little encouragement and support from the rest of the 
University, as on Friday evening there were not more 
han a hundred McGill men in all at the concert in 
place of the six or seven hundred the Club had a right 
to expect. 

An excursion party of thirty or more Students is 
being organized for the loth of February, when the Club 
makes the return visit to Burlington assisting at the 
U. V. M. boys’ concert there, and a most enjoyable 
trip is anticipated. 



ODE TO MATHEMATICS. 

Ye Mathematics ! over which I pore 
Full stolidly — yet to my sorrow find 
I cannot fix upon your crabbM lore 

My scape-grace, wandering, weak, wool-gathering mind ; 
Oh, are ye not, in language plain, a bore ? 

For luckless wight like me a plague refined — 

• Ye intellectual catacombs— where drones 
Of many an age have piled up musty bones. 

We are old foes— yet can’t, it seems, be loosed 
From one another, though we tug the chain 
Like coupled hounds : I have so oft abused 
And railed at you, and yet returned again 
To be b}^ your dark mysteries confused, 

That at my fate I smile, ai:d friendship fain 
Would offer — foes are well-nigh friendly (trust ’em) 

Whose regular abuse becomes a custom. 

They say you lead to grand results, and Science 
Makes you unto her heaven a Jacob’s ladder ; 

So clouded though, we cannot see the sky hence. 

And black-gowned students are a vision sadder. 

Nor promise half so much for what they spy hence, 

As did the white-robed angels Jacob had a 
Glimpse of ; but be that as it may, you lead to 
Things greater far than I can e’er give heed to. 

You teach the stars — their courses — like Sileuus ; 

Teach what the world is set a- going by. 

And all the eccentricities of Venus ; 

You compass earth and ocean, land and sky ; 

Teach us to argue and to squabble, weaners 

From base delights (no doubt) to pure and high ; * 

You teach mankind all, all that can ennoble ‘em — 
Meantime I’m staggered with this plaguy problem. 

H. M 

* “ Ingenuas didicisse fidelHer aries. 

Emollit mores, nec sinit essi feros*' 

Ovid. 

SOCIETIES. 



undergraduates’ literary society. 

The Literary Society held its regular meeting on 
Friday, January 13th, with a very fair attendance. On 
account of the resignation of Mr. Gordon, 4th Arts, 
Mr. Brown, 4th Aits, was elected to take his place in 
the debate with Toronto University to take place on 
February loth in the Molson Hall. 

After the appointment of Mr. Carmichael as critic, 
the programme for the evening was carried out, Mr. 
Mclver reading an essay, ” A Synopsis of Buckley’s 
History.” Then Mr. Saunders of ist year Arts gave a 



122 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



reading, “ The Applewoman,*' which was well render- 
ed after which followed the debate, “Resolved that 
total prohibition is practicable.” 

At the meeting of the Society which took place on 
Saturday, January 21st, after Mr. J. W. Hickson’s 
appointment as critic, the programme was proceeded 
with. 

Mr. Robertson, ist Arts, gave a reading, ‘‘The 
Diver, which was followed by a chorus, and thus the 
debate took place, — “ Resolved that a limited monarchy 
is a better form of a Government than a republic.” 
This turned out to be one of the most interesting 
debates this winter. The speakers were as follows : — 
On the Affirmative : On the Negative : 

Mr. Carmichael, ist Law Mr. Howard, 2nd Arts. 

“ Moffat, Arts '' Smith, 3rd Arts. 

“ Marler, Arts “ Lambly, 3rd Arts. 

The Negative won. 



The annual debate with Toronto"/ Varsity wilLbe 
held under the auspices of the Undergraduates ’ Liter- 
ary Society on the evening of Friday, Feb. loth. The 
subject selected for debates is whether woman suffrage 
and the admission of women to parliament would be 
beneficial to Canada, the Toronto men, Messrs. Bull 
and Hellems, taking the affirmative. The speakers for 
McGill will be J. Brown and A. Graham. In addition 
to the debate and the usual exhibition of vocal talent, 
P. D. Muir will give a reading, and a poem, composed 
for the occasion, will be read by W. M. Mackeracher. 



YOUNG men’s CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION. 

The Provincial Convention of Young Men’s Christian 
Associations has just been held in our City. Delegates 
were present from the different educational institutions 
in Ontario and Quebec, and a special conference among 
College men took place under the leadership of Jno. 
R. Mott, college secretary of the International Com- 
mittee, and many practical helps were received in 
regard to association methods. Great emphasis was 
laid on the need of making special effort to interest the 
Freshman class as soon as they enter College. 



The words of Mr. Mott, when speaking of the 
Christian Association work thoughout the world, could 
not fail to deepen the conviction of the power and 
usefulness of this movement ; and when we consider 
that in America there are 450 associations including 
tens of thousands of men as members, we at once 
recognize that here is a force that will help in moulding 
the future of our land to a marked degree. 

The address to Students on Sunday held the interest 
of men on what is certainly a matter of “ vital 
interest,” and no man who listened to Mr. Mott’s 
words of power and truth could help but feel that there 
was room in his own life to rise to a higher standard 
of manhood, let that feeling be realized. 

“ A perfect man, the measure of the stature of the 
fullness of Christ.” 



We were glad to have Dr. W. F. Hamilton at the 
meeting on Sunday, Jan. 22nd. His continued interest 
in the work of the Association is very encouraging. 



The Annual Meeting was held in the Arts Building 
on Jan. 17th, when reports of past work were read and 
officers elected for the ensuing year. The membership 
report showed a large increase over that of last year, 
more than three hundred men having joined. At the 
same time more really active members are needed. 
The election of officers resulted as follows : — 

Pres. — F. J. Day, Arts ’94. 

ist Vice-Pres. — M. Connor, Sc. ’94. 

2nd Vice-Pres. — A. Duff, Sc. ’94. 

Cor. Sec — R. O. Ross, Med. ’96. 

Rec. Sec. — J. Le Rossignol, Med. ’95. 

Treasurer — P. C. Leslie, Med. ’95. 

Assist-Treas. — A. A. Graham, Arts ’94. 

The Association looks forward to years of increased 
usefulness, and with this end in view efforts will be 
renewed to obtain a home of its own on the College 
grounds. 



YOUNG women’s CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION 

The Y. W. C. A. held their monthly Theo Dora 
Meeting on Thursday, Jan. 19th. 

The Chairman gave a short and earnest address on 
“ the Relation of Missions to the Student,” touching 
also on the Student Volunteer Movement for Foreign 
Missions. The last past of the hour was passed in 
hearing two letters : one from Mrs. Read, telling of the 
journey inland from the coast to their temporary home 
in Cisamba ; the other letter was from Mr. McCallum, 
of Erzoom, Turkey, a graduate of this University. 
He spoke of the especial need of medical workers in 
that field, and also teachers for kindergarten. Boys’ 
and Girls’ schools in Erzoom . The meeting closed 
with singing and prayer. 



” THE SENIOR SOCIETY APPLIED SCIENCE.” 

The second regular meeting of this Society was held 
on the evening of the 24th of January in the old 
Science Building, a room of which has kindly been 
given by the Dean of the Faculty of Arts to hold their 
meetings in. 

After the adoption by the meeting of the above name 
and the Constitution as a whole, a very interesting 
paper on “ Indicators'^ was read by Mr. John Burns. 
Mr. Burns dealt very thoroughly with the subject, 
showing the importance of the Indicator in determin- 
ing the greatest efficiency that it is possible to obtain 
from an engine. After some light refreshments the 
meeting adjourned 



DELTA SIGMA SOCIETY. 

The regular meeting of this Society was held on 
Thursday, Jan. 26th, the Vice-President in the chair. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



123 



Owing to illness, our President was prevented from 
taking her usual position among us. 

The subject, Resolved that the Universal adop- 

tion of Free Trade would be beneficial to all Nations,” 
was discussed with animation by the following mem- 
bers : Affirmative ( Miss Ogilvy. 

I “ Radford. 

\ Miss Hammond. 

Negative. | .. 

The vote of the members was in favor of the nega- 
tive. Miss Millar, who had kindly consented to act as 
critic, then summed up the most noticeable defects as 
well as good points of the speakers, commenting 
favorably upon their fluency as a whole. Mrs. Cox 
then addressed the meeting in a few words on the 
subject under discussion. 



MCGILL MEDICAL SOCIETY. 

A regular meeting of this Society was held on 
Saturday evening last, Jan. 28th ; the president Mr. 
T. A. Dewar, in the chair. 

The attendance was large, probably the largest of 
the season, and well represented the whole four years. 
There being no business to transact, the President 
called upon Mr. J A. Henderson, ’93, whose paper on 
“ Electricity in Medicine ” had been looked forward to. 
Mr. Henderson briefly reveiwed the physics of elec- 
tricity, and proceeded to present fully its clinical bear- 
ing, both from a diagnostic and therapeutic standpoint. 
During the course of the address, bursts of applause 
were of frequent occurrence. At the close a hearty 
vote of thanks was unanimously concurred in, each 
member present feeling satisfied with having received 
a scientific treat. 

Mr. W. O. Lambly, ’93, also read a case report on 
“ Typhoid Fever.^’ This was well received, and called 
forth much discussion. The case in question was an 
Atypical form of Typhoid characterized by intense anae- 
mia and pyrexia, all the other cardinal symptoms 
bring absent. It was late when adjournment was 
called. 



MONTREAL VETERINARY MEDICAL 
ASSOCIATION. 

The regular fortnightly meeting ot the above Society 
was held in the lecture room, No. 6 Union Ave., 
Thursday, Jan- 26th. 

Dr. M. C. Baker reported a very interesting case and 
one of great practical interest to the members. 

Mr. Lamb read a very interesting and instructive 
paper on the inspection of meat. Having had consid- 
erable experience in this line of business, his paper 
showed a good deal of originality . 

Mr. Plaskett followed with paper on Variola. 
Much of the best part of this paper was left out on 
account of the length, but e?io?ig/i was read to show 
that the essayist was thoroughly conversant with the 
subject. Part of the paper was occupied with collateral 
subjects as vaccination immunity, etc. He also briefly 
outlined the Botanical position of the pathogenic 



organism associated with the disease. The possible 
origin and why the disease at the present day showed 
so many different modifications and types was touched 
upon. The meeting then adjourned. 



FACULTY REPORTS. 



MEDICAL CLASS REPORTS. 

Professor of Surgery to his class : “ Sometimes a 
man will totter and fall while trying to hold on to his 
load.” 

And as he uttered these words, several minds sadly 
reverted to the last medical dinner which was held at 
the Windsor. 

* 

* 

The Final year Medicals are unanimous in the 
opinion that they should hold a class dinner. Messrs. 
Deeks and Hewetson have been appointed to obtain all 
the necessary information. 

* 

* * 

“I was never asked whether I 'had made any 
expense outside general invitation. See ? 

* 

The Final year men in Surgery think that it is a 
matter of minor importance to them whether tumors 
ofigiuate in embryonic cell nests, or where they 
originate. 

* * 

What evidence is necessary to prove the existence of 
Tubercle Bacilli ? In6\-sputa-h\e^ evidence. 

* 

* :1c 

It is to be hoped that steps will shortly be provided 

in the new operating theatre, as a six-foot drop on a 

marble floor is neither dignified nor graceful. 

* . 

:ic :fc 

Dr. Bell received quite an ovation upon his appear- 
ance at College to deliver the -first of his annual 
lectures on dislocations. 

* 

* ^ 

Pj-of. (Discussing modes of death) “ Death from 

burns may be caused in many ways as by injury from 
falling bricks, timbers, etc. Death from drowning 
may be caused by a stnkciblc attack. 

* 

* * 

Othsematoma, gentlemen, is a rare trouble ; 
it is seen in two classes of patients— Lunatics and 
Football Players.” 

* 

% ♦ 

A genial Sophomore lately announced a chicken 
supper to his friends, but with the exception of one 
man who was suffering from atrophy of the first pair 
of nerves they managed to have other engagements. 

*** 

“ Do you know of no other disease of the chest 
besides Bronchitis? ” 



124 



McGJLL FORTNIGHTLY. 



SCIENCE JOTTINGS. 

FacuIvTy Appued Science. 

Attejition / 

Do we intend to do ourselves credit at the coming 
Grand Reception ? 

Shall we not take full advantage of this exceptional 
opportunity to shew how a Faculty of McGill which 
has a Glee Club and a very able professional con- 
ductor can sing ? Or shall we treat the matter as 
carelessly as though we were not the “ Rising Faculty 
of McGill 

It is not every day that our Glee Club will be 
listened to and criticized by three or four thousand of 
the members and friends of McGill, and as our guests. 

It is therefore with the most perfect confidence in 
your esprit de corps and your desire to do honor to 

Old McGilL’ that we call upon all four years in 
Applied Science to turn up to a man at the practices 
every Wednesday afternoon at 5 o’clock, sharp, on the 
top floor of the Engineering building, that we may 
have a well-trained chorus of one hundred and forty 
or fifty on February 24th, instead of merely the twenty- 
five or thirty faithful ones who have practised lately. 



What a Dyer mistake was discovered in that girder 
problem ! 



Mr. W. P. Laurie represented us at the Arts* Dinner. 

Now that the date for the ‘‘ big show ** is definitely 
fixed, would it not be in order to have a meeting of the 
four years and arrange our part of the programme ? 



Mr. J. A. McPhail was recently nominated by the 
corporation for the Royal Commissioners scholarship of 
£ 1 50, tenable for two years. 



Nothing depresses our freshmen so much as to see a 
call for a meeting posted on the bulletin board. They 
regard all such notices as ominous of some inevitable 
subscription. 



We lately overheard a group of readers express 
much concern over the fact that someone would one 
of these days run off with our genial and obliging 
librarian. The Faculty would indeed sustain a great 
loss by such an action, and we are selfish enough to 
wish that the “ lucky fellow ’* may yet “ bide a wee.** 



There was a great rush for the bookstores on last 
Thursday when it became known that Prof. Bovey*s 
new work on Applied Mechanics was out. It is a 
modest little volume of over 800 pages, which we 
refrain from giving any extended review of at present 
as it is our duty to do so on the 30th of March. It is| 
however, the universal opinion of the Students that the 
Dean’s latest effort is a decided success. 



One day last week an exhibition test of the new 
Buckton machine was made before a number of the 
University governors, when an 8^^ x 10^^ stick of oak 
timber and several pieces of two inch steel were 
broken almost before the spectators could adjust their 
eyeglasses. This was but a small demand on the 
ultimate strength of the Buckton. 



The Glee Club*s Annual Drive to the Club was 
again voted by all a complete success. After the 
usual excellent hot dinner had been disposed of, a 
large number of toasts were given and duly honored, 
while interspersed between them were songs and 
instrumental selections that were much appreciated. 

The Tug-of-War between the different years awoke 
the usual excitement, but perhaps the most interesting 
event was the excellent sparring exhibition given 
towards the close of the evening. 

The Glee Club was glad to welcome a number of 
Meds. who joined them in the Drive and added much 
to the pleasure of the occasion. 



Legal Briefs. 



The Conspirators (by Wm. Shakspen) 

Scene L — Vaulted Cellar. — Noise heard^ enter conspir- 
ators, Deasy, Gallegher, O' Sullivaii and Duffy. 
Gallegher — (loquit) How goes the night, Duffy ? 

— The moon is down ; I have not heard the 

clock. 

Chorus of conspirators — ha ! ha ! ha ! 

Deasy—¥Lo\dj take my sword : — There’s husbandry 
in heaven, their candles are all out. Take thee that 
too. A heavy summons lies like lead upon me, and 
yet I would not sleep — merciful powers ! restrain in me 
the cursed thoughts that nature gives way to in repose! 
— Ge-ive me me Dagger ! ! ! 

O' Sullivan— Ho ho ! Let’s briefly put on manly 
readiness and to the deed, me braves I 
(With low mutterings all withdraw with necks well 
sunken in coat-collars). 

Scene IL — To be continued by sheriff. 

{State Trials Vol. yyl) 



The Final Year is to be photographed, and an extra 
copy suitably framed is to be presented to the Faculty 
to keep “watch and ward *’ with the Faculty Owl over 
the students’ desks and the appurtenances thereof. 

Note. — Not “watch 2i\\^ guards" as there is a sug- 
gestiveness in that quotation incompatible with the 
provisions of the “ Criminal Code, 1893.” 

The Moot Court, as noted below is finally to hold a 
session, and another subject in criminal law, which 
savors of our quondam friend, Mr. Pitcher, has also 
been allotted by the committee. 



Peers Davidson, *93, has been chosen as valedictorian 
for the Final year. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



125 



Arrangements have been made for the Law Dinner, 
and invitations will soon be ‘‘ out ” for the evening of 
Feb. 7th. 



CASE FOR MOOT COURT. 

On the 29th of March, 1886, the Montreal City 
Council passed a resolution authorizing the expendi- 
ture of certain sums of money for public purposes. On 
the 30th June. 1886, a rate payer served and filed a peti- 
tion asking for the annulment of this resolution. The 
City pleaded the three months’ prescription enacted by 
the statute Q, 41-43 Viet., chap. 53. sec. 12. The 
plaintift answered that the last day of the term of pre- 
scription being non-juridical (St Peter and St. Paul’s 
Day), he could validly serve and file his petition on the 
next following juridical day. 



Question. — Is the plea of prescription well founded? 

For Flahitiff, For Defendant, 

P. Davidson A. R. Hall. 

C. LeBeuf. G. W. MacDougall. 

The above argument will lake place on the 8th Febu- 
ary, 1893, between 5 to 6 p.m. Professor Lafleur has 
kindly consented to act as judge 

Lawyer, — Now, Mr- Jenks, I want you to tell me the 
truth, without any evasion. Had you or had you not 
any altercation with the prisoner at the bar before this 
event you speak of? 

Witness. — Well, to tell you the truth, we did have 
something together, but I don’t think that was the 
name of it. 

If distance lends enchantment to the view, and the 
view refuses to return it, would an action for damages 
lie? 



A New York lawyer tried jumping from a railroad 
train running at the rate of sixty miles an hour. 
Strange to say, he did not move for a second trial. 



ARTS. 

Mr. Wm. A. Coates, who has provided the music for 
the Arts Song, '"came up and gave the men a drill in it 
on Thursday last. A piano had been procured for the 
occasion, and lithographed copies printed for use at the 
Dinner. Mr. Coates first sang the first verse and the 
chorus himself ; and the applause which followed must 
have convinced him that his work was appreciated and 
the Arts Song a decided success. 

A Vision. 

Gaze with me, for I see him . He is Macaulay’s New 
Zealander. All around him is desolation ; he stands 
amid a ruin. But that ruin, that stone upon which his 
right foot rests; — let us examine it closely. It is the 
capital of one of the front columns of the ancient 
Church of St. Peter’s in the still more ancient city of 
Mount Royal. This was the great city of the North, 
two million people thronged its streets. But now the 



earthquake has .shattered its strong edifices and the vol 
cano has buried them in ashes ! In the great eruption 
of the year 2017, the city was destroyed in a single 
night, with the exception of some large printing houses ; 
for not even a volcano can drown the press. Twenty 
centuries have rolled* by since then. And there he 
stands. And in his left hand he holds a book. The 
book is new, and its pages are fresh from the press. 
And as he turns them over he exclaims to himself : 
“ And this was once the seat of a great university. It 
was called McGill, or, in full, Old McGill.” But hark ! 
he sings. He chants an air that is familiar. Let us 
see what name is upon the cover of that book. We 
can read it, for the tongue is our own. Surely it can- 
not be ; andyetitis. It is the new McGill Song Book, 
just issued. Courage, ye college bards, your fame 
shall yet resound. The centuries gape for you, but 
oblivion shall not receive you. The builders of a New 
McGill shall sing your songs with New-zeal-and 
energy. 

The Faculty allowed the bulletin board to be re- 
placed, on condition that it be put where it could not 
be seen. 



Can one of the Donalda's tell us what the Arabian 
peanut has to do with Zoology ? 

G — r — m informs us that a man gets his hoods by 
degrees. We wouldn’t have considered this worth 
mentioning, were it not that ordinarily a man gets his 
clothes by fits. 



It has been suggested that Mr. Mott procure a quill 
pen for the registration of names in the Library. 
“Why” ? Because it would be a-quill to the ofiBce- 

The Third year has resolved to call a meeting of the 
first three years, to consider the giving of a dinner to 
the graduating class. 

What kind Was it ? 

Student (seeing a smiling damsel pass in front of 
McGill). — “ Say, William, is that a Donalda?” 

William . — “ No, we don’t kape that koind here.” 



COMP. MEDICINE CLASS REPORTS. 

Mr. A. S. Cleaves, the representative to the Arts’ 
Dinner, speaks very highly of the entertaining ability 
of the Arts’ Dinner Committee. 



Messrs. Wylie and Thayer have been chosen to 
represent this Faculty at the dinners given by the 
vStudents of Science and Law. 



The question of having a Faculty Dinner is at 
present disturbing the minds of the “ Vets.” The 
question was raised rather late this session, but 
undoubtedly they will not be backward another year. 

Dr. Gunn has elected to give the boys a course of 
some twelve demonstrations in Practical Bacteriology 



126 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



If they display as much avidity to acquire knowledge 
in this all important branch as the Doctor does zeal in 
their interests, then we safely predict wonders. 



What’s the matter now about the Archaeology of 
the veterinary profession ? Others may vaunt their 
antiquity ! but it was clearly proven at the Arts’ 
Dinner that the “ Vets ” have precedence as far as age 
is concerned. 



This session has been noted for the amount of 
sickness among the Students. And now the smiling 
countenance of J. D. McGillivray enlightens the 
wards of the Montreal General. We trust his stay in 
that institution will be brief. 



The only Fred, of the second year was out of town 
a few days last week ; but whether on a nigger-killing 
expedition or curling, we have not learned. 



Genial Glen is now officiating as assistant house 
surgeon. 



The following dialogue between two Freshmen was 
over-heard recently : — 

Freshie No. i. — Say, Chappie ! Do you know what 
your whiskers remind me of ? 

Freshie No. 2. — Naw ! What is it ? 

Freshie No- i. — The cilia of a mucous membrane. 

Freshie No. 2.— (In disgust) you are getting sillier 
and sillier every day ! 



VET’S SONG. 

(Accepted by the Committee as the Faculty Song to be 
inserted in the new song book, and specially composed for the 
Faculty of Comparative Medicine and Veterinary Science.) 

By Cecii. French (Class ’94). 

I 

Of all Professions in the world 
It is of course expected 
We think ours is by far the best, 

With all the sport connected. 

What eye and judgment it requires 
As well as nerve and muscle 
When we sometimes in haste are called 
With equine strength to tussle. 

Chorus. 

We’re Vets, Vets, Vets, 

And proud of our Profession. 

We*ll drink our fill to old McGill 
With joy at every session. 

II 

Now there’s the cheeky Freshman 
With his eye the “ Soph s” a-scanning 



While in his light and empty head 
An answer he is planning. 

He knows it all, he’s sure of that. 

At least down home they told him ; 

He makes a break, gets left, and thinks 
That Silence oft is golden. 

HI 

The Soph,” he’s quiet, he’s wiser now, 
He finds he doesn’t know it : 

He’s sobered down, he’s lost his cheek. 
At least he doesn’t show it. 

He’s got to plug, he knows just that. 

It pays best to be steady. 

And when the balmy Spring comes round 
Exams will find him ready. 

IV 

The senior year of well-tried men 
New theories are exploring. 

And with the wings of zeal outspread 
In realms of Science soaring. 

When graduating, thoughts will rise 
Of parting on the morrow. 

But consciousness of honors won 
Will drive away all sorrow. 

V 

Alas ! so many fail to think 

Our poor dumb friends have feeling, 

They care not how much pain they cause 
When they perform their healing. 

Then let, McGill, thy mission be 
Of kindliness a teacher ; 

With thy strong arm, the guardian be 
Of every helpless creature. 



DONALDA NEWS. 

^‘Nos numerus sumus et fruges consumere natae.” 

At last the great event, long anticipated, fraught 
with consequences, second in importance only to our 
B.A., namely, the Sophomore lunch, has taken place. 

We gathered around a table decorated with savage 
taste, and compared notes on the suitable quotations 
which adorned the menu-cards. Presiding over the 
table was the C. G. S. system, which so far from chilling 
us caused a warmth and vitality to pervade the whole 
table and dispensed viands with mathematical exact- 
ness. After the lunch there was a feast of reason and 
a flow of soul which completely disproved the lines : 
“Too much eating, too much drinking. 

Too much everything but thinking.” 

The usual “buttered” toasts of “Queen and 
Country” and “Alma Mater” were followed by a 
most hearty toast to our Principal, of whom it was well 
said, “ Nature made one such man and broke the die.” 

“Our fellow-students” as we saw them in their 
representatives showed a better appreciation of our 
many talents and virtues than we would have supposed 
possible for one not intimately connected with our 
year. 

“Our Societies” was proposed by our President in 
a most iligant spache, taking as the foundation of her 



McGill fortnightly. 



127 



remarks a few words from the close of Prof. Moyse’s 
address to the A x, last fall. “ that the chief value of a 
College Society was to develop the individuality of 
the student.” On behalf of the ^ 2 our Early Rose 
spoke with an animated defence of her own hypocrisy. 
The response for the gymnasium was quite superfluous, 
our “elastic stepper’* with her “ ruddy cheeks and 
well developed biceps” being the personification of all ' 
her remarks. 

Afterwards when we spoke “ not as representatives 
but as girls,” the lunch was voted the jolliest we had 
ever had, and we will all look back with fond remem 
brance to our Sophomore lunch. 



“ What is the phyllotaxis of the doors leading to the 
Botany laboratory ?” 



Prof before lecture. — “ Where did I leave off last 
day? May I look at your note-book?” Reads — 

“ You nasty scrabby old cat, you’ll be sorry for this 
when I am dead.” 

Prof meditates. 

Apply dichotomy to an oyster 
Oyster 



16 Shelled oysters non- 16 shelled oysters. 



Following a long established custom, Arts ’93 met 
in a social way for the last time as a class on Tuesday 
last. The President, Miss Millar, presided gracefully at 
the head of the table, on her left sat the guest of the 
day, Miss Radford, who added much to the pleasure of 
the occasion by her songs. 

The toasts were three : — 

“ The Seniors,” proposed by Miss Hunt, responded 
to by Miss Campbell. 

“Our Alma Mater,” proposed by Miss Fairclough, 
responded to by Miss James. 

“ Our Successors,” proposed by Miss Eee, replied to 
by Miss Angus. 

MissSmardon though claiming to be no elocutionist, 
gave much pleasure by her recitations. Mr. Mott was 
not forgotten, although not amongst us the Committee 
gave him the credit of the success of our toast-cards. 
The afternoon was far spent before we separated, each 
member voting this hour among the pleasantest spent 
within college walls. 



EXCHANGES. 

The Owl is certainly one of the best college papers 
published in Canada. It is the organ of a Roman 
Catholic university ; but there is nothing mediaeval in 
its spirit. Its literary tone is truly Catholic. The 



Christmas number was replete with good matter, and 
ulfilled the promise of its fair outside, so elegant and 
tasteful. The volume was diversified with twenty-six 
pages of choice poetry, including a sonnet by Canada’s 
laureate, Lamjiman. If this is an age in which the 
popular interest in poetry is on the decline, one of the 
great duties of college journalism is surely to exert a 
counteracting influence and to encourage the taste for 
poetry (for poetry itself needs no encouragement : poe- 
try, like murder, will out) by cultivating in its readers 
an appreciation for it. From the public press, which 
always anticipates the popular tendency, nothing is to 
be hoped ; and it is not often that one of our leading 
poets, after his merit is acknowledged, condescends to- 
contribute to it. But the university is the friend of poe 
ry as she is the foster-mother of art. So much as a tri- 
bute to the Muse. The number also contains a well- 
written article on Canada’s new premier, which is accom- 
panied by an excellent portrait, and also an interesting 
teview of the career of Gerald Griffin. The writer 
ascribes to Griffin “ originality, enthusiasm, energy, 
industry, heroic perseverance, genuine faith, and strong 
self-reliance.” 

In the January number of the Owl the best article is 
probably one by Dr. Glacmacher on Lady Macbeth 
The paper on Saint Andrew, too, is interesting, and 
Literary Notes and Notices are perhaps better than 
usual. 

The January number of the Presbyterian College 
Journal came out at last. A valuable contribution to 
bibliography is furnished by Prof. Scrimgeour, who 
relates the history of the three great codices of the Bible. 
“ In Harvard Halls,” by Robeit MacDougall, is brought 
to an end. Here are some of the old Laws of Harvard , 
College : “ No Freshman shall speak to a Senior with 
his hat on, nor have it on in a Senior’s chamber, nor 
in his own if a Senior be there.” “When anyone 
knocks at a Freshman’s door, he shall immediately open 
the door without inquiring who is there.” “ The Fresh- 
man shall furnish the bats, balls and footballs for the use 
of students, to be kept at the battery.” “ The Sophomores 
shall publish these rules to the Freshmen in the Chapel, 
at which time the Freshmen are enjoined to keep their 
seats and attend with decency to the reading." 

The College Student comes to us from Franklin and 
Marshall College, Pa. It is gotten up in a style fit for 
an art journal ; its contributions evince live interest and 
literary excellence, and its editorial department is 
strong. 

No. 5 of the Dalhousie Gazette contains, among other 
good things, an able article discussing the relative 
claims of science and philosophy to be considered the 
champion of liberty of thought. It arrives at no deci- 
sion. 

The University Monthly to us from Fredericton, 

we welcome it at McGill as we have already welcomed 
several of the Graduates of the University of N.B. 
The last issue is almost entirely occupied by the inau- 
gural address of Prof. Davidson, from which we would 
like to quote whole paragraphs. 



128 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



The Portfolio is published by the students of the 
Hamilton Ladies’ College. It will probably be more 
interesting to 3"oung ladies and the members of the 
Toronto Varsity Glee Club than it is to the exchange | 
editor. i 



READING NOTES. 

Students, teachers and physicians get Turkish baths j 
at half price at the Turkish Bath Institute in this city | 
Travellers say that nowhere in Europe can you get a 
better bath. 

Medical men generally are now recommending the 
Turkish Bath for the general health, and more espe 
cially for rheumatism, coughs and colds. It is a very 
pleasant remedy. 

Gentlemen have the early morning, afternoon and 
evening hours 



A YOUNG MAN 

Can largely increase his income by working during his 
spare time for a First Class Life and Accident Insurance 
Company, address P.O. Box 835, Montreal. 



STUDENTS’ HEADQUARTERS. 



All the Books required for the 




FACULTIES OF McCILL, 



TO BE HAD FROM 

W. & 00. 

x)own Town Store, - - 232 ST. JAMES ST, 

Up Town Store, - - 2365 ST. CATHERINE ST. 



ploU 30 P 5 ! ploCUGPS ! ! 



The finest flowers, and most Artistic Floral work, can 
be had at all seasons and for all occasions. 

S. S. Florist, 

(»(> BEAVER BALL BILL. a few doors below Dorchester St. 



THE JHITl HIES TMIVBITEt. 




“ Improvement the Order of the Ag*e.” 

Competitors must improve in order to equal it. 




1744 Notre Dame Street, - MONTREAL. 

Agent for the EDISON PHONOGRAPH. 

Telephone 2963. 



TO WHEELMEN. 



Before buying your Wheel for the coming season, call in and see the 

' HUMBER ’ BEESTON 

AND THE 

NEW "HOWE.’’ 

The most perfect Safety Bicycles in the market. Dunlop Adjustable 
Tyre and the Laforce Tyres. SOLE AO ENT, 

LOUIS RUBENSTEIN, 637 Craig Street 



THE INGRES-COUTELLIER SCHOOL OF LANGUAGES. 




100 Dorchester St., (KINKORA.) 
We have much pleasure in announcing that 
we have opened a 

Fencing ocanemg 

in connection with our establishment. We have 
secured the services of Mr. A, Duret, late of 
the Ecole Superieure de Guerre, Paris, and are 
now ready for pupils. 

Terms: $io per month, lessons every day 
if desired. For clubs of ten members, McGill 
Students, $6o.oo per month. , 



THE INGEES-JOHTELLIER SCHOOL OF LANGUAGES. 



Single Trial Lessons Free. 



Send for Circulars, 



McGill fortnightly, 



129 




“THE BOYS” buy their own and 
sweethearts’ 

IS (3-XjO'VES 

AT TIIK 

Paris Glov«^ Store. 

262 St. James St. | 2341 St. Oath rine Street. 

e, Bj, C 

MEDALS FOR SPORTS. 

Badg^es, Lapel Buttons, Pins, etc., in Hard 
Enamel, of all colors, a specialty. 

DESIGNS and ESTIMATES FREE OF CHARGE 

E xperienced Designers and Enamellers on the premises 
LARGEST STOCK OF 

Medium Priced Watches aud Jewellery in the city. 

Jewellery made to order and Watches repaired at Lowest Prices. 

255 & 257 St. James Street. 

Hair Dressing Palace- 

THE LARGEST ASSOKTMENT OF 

(Brushes, Qombs. Biazors. Strops, 
B'erfiimery and Toilet 
Articles. 




MOCToi^, pyiuLiips & GO., 

STATIONERS, 

Blank Book takers and Printers 

1755 & 1757 NOTRE DAME STREET, 



/ * N 

AGENTS FOR. 

1 PME €A!LiaMAPIl 

WRITING MACHINE. 



What do you think 
ni shave you for nothing 
And give you a drink 

JOSEPH VEZINA, 

12 McCill College Av., just below St. Catherine St. 

PRICES; HAIR CUT 15 CENTS. 

Sliavins:, 12 XicUets $l.oo. 



m3 & 1745 NOTRE DAME STREET. 



SE-ASON 1592.93. 

I beg to announce that my stock, consisting of 

^uitin^s, Meltons, Beavers, friezes, &c. 

IS NOW COMPLETE. 

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 

h.B, — DRESS SUITS, best cloth and workmanship 
Silk Lining, $36.00, 

INSPECTION invited. 

WM. F/VF?QLf+flrRSON, 

HVIercliant Tailor, 

135 ST. PETER STREET. 



iWansen Moullin s Surgery 

Recommended for the use of Students bp the 

Prof. Surgery in McGill and other Universities. 

PUBLISHED ON SATURDAY. 

For Sale only by the Exclusive Agent, 

E. M. RENOUF, - 2238 St. Catherine St. 

Copies can be seen at my store. 



WeglCAN 







557 St. Lawrence 



This Store is known to be the cheapest one in the citv to buv 
furs and have repairing done. 

Gome in and see our prices, and you will find you can do bette 
with us than with any otherlFurrier in Montreal. 



4 




130 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



ADVERTISE NOW 

“kjjr 

IN THE 



McGill Fortnightly. 



l^eod by all 




GRADUATES 

OF THE 

UNIVERSITY. 



AVERAGE CIRCULATION OVER TOO. 




Hot Water, Steam and Sanitary Engineers, 



TO TECE 



^ ^ ^ i ^ 



McGill University Buildings 

Royal Victoria Hospital. 

Board of Trade Building. 

PLANS and ESTIMATES GIVEN ON APPLICATION. 



ABBOTTS, CAMPBELL & MEREDITH. 

Advocates, Solicitors, etc. 

No, IX XXosx>i.tEi,l Stx*eet, 

MONTREAL. 



J, B, Abbott, 

H. Abbott, Jr., Q. C. 



H. J. Hague. 



C. S. Campbell, 
F. E. Meredith, 



J. S. Archibald, Q.C., D.C.L. Geo. G. Foster. 

ARCHIBALD & FOSTER, 

Advocates, Barristers, Etc- 

GUARDIAN ASSURANCE BUILDING, 
i8i St. James street, 

MONTREAL. 



Telephone 1880 . 

Cable Address, “ Arcfost.** 



ATWATER & MACKIE, 

Adoocates, Barristers, Commissioners, etc. 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 ST STI5/EET, 

IVIONTFeEAZ.. 



Hon. John S. Hall, Q.C., M.F.F. 
Albert J. Brown. 



Selkirk Cross. 

W. Prescott Sharp. 

HALL, CROSS, BROWN S SHARP, 

Advocates. Barristers and Solicitors, 

.... TEMPLE BUILDING .... 

185 St. James Street, - - - MONTREAL. 

MACMASTER & McGlBBON, 

ADVOCATES, BARRISTEaS, ETC. 

The Temple, St. James Street, 
MONTREAL. 

Donald Macm aster, Q-C. Robert D. McGibbon, Q.C. 

F. S. Maclennan. 



Surgical Instruments 

and Chemical A*pparatUs. 

A full stock constantly on hand, imported direct from the leading 
manufacturers of the world. 

... AN INSPECTION INVITED. . . « 

LYMAN, SONS & CO., 

384 St. Paul Street. 



Photos, Combination or direct, 

— . . form one of our specialties— first 

• class work. 

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 



R. SUMMERHAYES & OO., 1 Bleury Street. 







miEAMN Ss 5 

I640'^& 1642 NOTRE DAME STREET. | 



ROBERTSON, FLEET & FALCONER 

- ADVOCATES • 

1S7 St. James Street, 

O IN' T E A. Xj . 



W, & F. F, CURRIE & CO., 

too GREY NUN STREET. 

IMPORTERS OF 

SCOTCH GLAZED DRAIN PIPES, 

Chimney Tops, Vent Linings, Flue Covers, Fire Bricks, Fire 
Clay, Portland Cement, Roman Cement, Canada Cement, 
Water Lime, Whiting, Plaster Paris, Borax, 

China Clay, etc., etc. 

MANUFACTURERS OF 

Bessemer Steel Sofa» Chair & Bed Springs. 

A LARGE STOCK ALWAYS ON HAND. 



ALL THE LEADING WHOLESALE TRADE HANDLE OLD CHUM PLUG AND CUT SMOKING TOBACCO. 



OLD CHUM PLUG AND CUT 



, C&3 00.> 

(6 and 18 DeBresoles Streetf Montreal, 

Manufacturers of the Finest QnsUty EleOtF&'Pl^tQd Wspq, And Sole Manufacturers of the Celebrated 

WM. ROGERS’ Knives, Forks, Spoons> Etc. 

A, J. tf'HIMBET, Manager. 



FURNITURE 



MILLS, 



— FOR — 

Ppofessops and Students 
At Special Prices. 

RENAUD, KING & PATTERSON. 

652 CRAIG STREET. 

Good Fall and Winter BOOTS 

$2.75, 3.50. 4.00 PER PAIR. :• 

Just the thins for Students. 

Wm. F. SWAIIDOW, 

2337 and 2339 St. Catherine St. 

It goes without saying that J 



Furrier 8c, ftatter, 

ST*. CATHERINE: S^T. 

2nd door West of Peel. 



E. A. gertH. 

DIRECT IMPORTER OP HIGH CLASS 

HAVANA CIOARS. 

B. B. B. BIPKH. 

Sole agent for Rynasi Freres 
KGYBXIAIH CIGABKKXKS. 

Smoke Berth's Celebrated Mixture. 

2235 ST< CATHERINE QUEENS BLOCK. 



WE MAKE NO BONES 

About it when we tell the Students that we carry the largest and 
test assorted stock to he found in Montreal, in the following lines, 
at ROCK BOTTOM PRICES, anri give 5 p.c. discount to 
Students. So come to us for your Hats and Caps, Underwear, 
Furnishings, also Boots and Shoes at 

JOHN ALLAN’S, 

659 TO 665 CRAIG STREET, - - Near Blemy. 



Estatoltshed 1859 . 

Tij. O'E^.A.ir, 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST, 

144 St. Lawrence Main Street, MONTREAL. 

The Dispensing of Physicians’ Prescriptions a specialty. 

Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers supplied with 
Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 



- W ALFORD’S 

Is- the favorite Studio with McGill. Class pictures a 
specialty. Photos of Professors on sale. Special rates 
as usual to Students. 

COR. ST. CATHERINE AND VICTORIA ST. 
Bell Telephone 3346 . 



D. NIGHTINGALE, 

Manufacturer of Billiard Tables, Improved 
Cushions, and dealer in Sporting Goods, 
Best Hockey Sticks, &c., &c. 

1742 Notre Dame St., Montreal. 




iMiHKBEs7 136 TO 140 ST. PETER STREET 

CORNER CRAIG. 

Branches all oyer the City. Telephones : Bell. 666 and 1745 



IVIcGII I the CHOICEST SMOKING TOBACCO THAT EXPERIENCE 

* ^ " CAN PRODUCE OR THAT MONEY CAN BUY 

MIXTURE SJVCOIKITiN'a- TOBAOCO: 




Tobacconist, ‘408 St. Janies St. 



HYDE PARK, ATHLETE, PURITAN, DERBY, SWEET SIXTEEN CIGARETTES 



ALL THE LEADINCTWHOLESALE TRADE HANDLE OLD CHUM PLUG AND CUT SMOKING TOBACCO. 




