Vor. vjii. 



JVo* 3* 



• McGILL 

UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 

§ 

Monday , December i ^th, 1884. 



CONTENTS : 



Editorials 












PAGE. 

3-5 


College World 


PAGE. 

- 10-11 


Contributions 












• 6 7 


Between the Lectures 


12 


McGill News 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


8-9 


Correspondence 


- 12-14 


Societies 












- 9-10 


Advertisements 


2, 14, 15, 16 



MONTREAL : 

PRINTED BY THE BURLAND LITHOGRAPHIC COMPANY. 



1884. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



MACMUSTER, HUTCHINSON & WEIR, 

^DYeCPEg*- 

Barristers, Solicitors , 

162 St. James Street, 
raorTTRE/vx.. 

DONALD MACMASTER, Q C. M. HUTCHINSON. B.C.L. 

r. s. weir, b c.i. f. s. McLennan. 



ADVOCATES, 

151 ST. TAMES STEEET, 

« 

Jtfsutroal, 



% w. 

J^flvocate, ^arri$ter Commissioner, $rc., 



MONTREAL. 



HEADQUARTERS 



FOR 




DRYSDALE’S 



232 ST. JA-lVtES ST. 



MEDICAL I VORKS, HOOKS USED IJ\' ART COURSE, 
SCIEJVCE TEXT BOOKS , 

THE VARIOUS THEOLOGICAL TEXT BOOKS. 



Full assortment in stock & supplied at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books, Ac., Ac., 

-<>-BEST VALUE IIS' TC)WN.-4>- 



Stylograplvic Pens , Anti- Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty. 



W. DRYSDALE & CO., 



232 St. Tames Street, 

ALSO 

Branch Store : 1423 St. Catherine St. 



GREENSHIELDS, MCCORKILL & GUERIN, 

ADVOCATES, 

JBiirrislers, jiliornatjs, jloliciiars, ^q., 

Chambers : Exchange Bank Building, , * 

102 ST. FRANCOIS XAVIER ST., 

MONTREAL, 

J. N. Gkbbnshields. J. C. McCorkill. Edmond Guerin 



IB. A.. GERTH. 



IMPORTER OF 



w » W $£$*) & 

liriar ami M<>orsc‘li;i mil Pipes, 

SULTANS, KHEDIVES AND BEYS IGYPTIAN CIGARETTES IN BOIES OF 25. 



Try St\ 3 .a.ers.tc ^£l2rt\a.re. 

Paces and other Cut 1 logs from $1.00 upwards. 

1323 ST. CATHERINE ST., QUEEN’S, Block. 



TV. PERTARD, 

Law Bookseller, Publisher, Importer 

And. Legal Stationer, 

23 ST. TAMES STREET, 

(Near the Court House.) 
MONTREAL. 




N 



OTMAN 





J. J. GREAVES, 

IMPORTER of all kinds of 

ty/oOLS, T 0Y5 > J EWELF l Y > £TA-|I0f4EF(Y, 

Fancy Goods, Wall Paper, Baby and Doll 
Carriages, Velocipedes, &c., &c. 

81G <£• 13-L-L St. Catherine Street, 

MONTREAL. 

Picture Framing done on Reasonable Terms. 



New Seale of Prices 

THIS YEAR 

4; FOR STUDENTS,^ 

m m 



Bleary S 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Vol. vm.] McGill college, Montreal, December ioth, 1884. [No. 3. 



Jlciitf llnioeusiti) Da^ette 



Dl RECTORS. 



Jeffrey H. Burland, B. Ap. Sc., F.C.S., President . 
G. J. A. Thompson, Vice-President. 

G. C. Wright, B.A., Treasurer . 

H. S. McLennan, Secretary. 

J. W. McMeekin, I H. Y. Thompson, B. A. 

A. B. Osborne, | T. W. Lesage. 

EDITORS. 



W. H. Turner, B.A., Editor-in-Chief. 



W. Dixon, B.A. 

B.A.E. Greenshields, B.A. 
S. Fortier. 



G. F. Palmer. 

C. H. Livingstone. 
T. IIaythorne, B. A. 



The University Gazette will be published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which 
rule no exception can be made. The naihe of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 



E&itorials. 



A DENIAL. 

We desire to contradict an impression which pre- 
vails with some people, that this paper is the property 
of, and conducted in the interests of a certain society. 
No greater untruth can be imagined. Neither the 
proprietors nor the editors of the Gazette represent 
any others than the students and graduates of this 
University, considered as such. The columns of the 
paper are open to the expression of every shade of 
opinion, and all who wish to have any dealings with 
us may depend upon receiving fair play. We regret 
that this explanation should be necessary, but, as 
some, malicious persons are to our detriment, indus- 
triously circulating the false report above mentioned, 
we are forced to give it this emphatic denial. 

THE SCIENCE FACULTY CRITICIZED. 

While we feel grateful to the men who have made 
the Science Faculty what it is, we should not overlook 
the fact that its future prosperity depends chiefly on 
the success of its graduates. Should they prove to be 
unfitted, by the nature of their education, to accom- 
plish well the work required of them, their deeds will 
reflect discredit on their Alma mater. On the other 
hand should they be successful in undertakings requir- 
ing much practical skill as well as scientific knowledge, 



the Faculty need not waste money in advertising ; 
its halls will always be well filled. Its undergraduates 
comprise young men from all parts of the Dominion, 
many of whom are, and have been for years, wholly 
dependent on themselves to procure means for the 
prosecution of their studies. Owing to the nature of 
their early training and the circumstances in which 
they have been placed they are inclined to regard 
every undertaking in its practical bearings. They are 
unwilling to spend time and money in studies without 
closely calculating the benefits that are likely to accrue 
from them. 

Professors, in their zeal to make departments under 
their charge famous, may unintentionably inflict heavy 
tasks, whose utility is doubtful, on this class of stu- 
dents. From our own experience we know that a 
teacher is apt to pay more attention and give undue 
prominence to the subject in which he excels. It 
must, however, be conceded by all that although such 
a course is pleasant to the teacher it may not be advan- 
tageous to the pupils. To the one whose main object 
in life has been — not how shall I earn a living — but 
how shall I become a famed mathematician, mathe- 
matical calculations and the unfolding of principles 
which are supposed to form the basis of engineering 
science will, in all probability, prove interesting. 

It is not our duty to criticise without careful con- 
sideration the course of study that wiser men than we 
have mapped out for us. Our aim is to ascertain, if 
possible, whether it is to our best interests to spend 
the greater part of the third and fourth years of a four 
years’ course in solving difficult problems by the aid 
of formulae which we must be able to deduce by 
means of the higher analysis. 

In relation to this question we may be allowed to 
quote from Sir. G. L. Yose, whom we know through 
his excellent practical treatise — “The Manual for 
Railroad Engineers.” He says, “The idea that has 
sometimes been expressed that an engineer must at 
any time be able to go to the formation of any formula 
which he may have to use, shows simply an entire 
lack of appreciation of the work an engineer has to do. 
Indeed, many of the formulae arc found upon exam- 
ination to have no foundation on which any reliance 
can be placed. A very large part of the rules in the 
books have been made, not by engineers, but by mathe- 
maticians, or by mere engineering scholars ; and, how- 



4 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1884. 



ever admirable they may be as specimens of mathema- 
tical reasoning, they are of little or no use in practice. 
I take the whole matter of stone arches, of retaining 
walls, of dams, of the pressure of earth-work — the re- 
sults of the higher analysis are for the most part of no 
practical value whatever and serve only to confuse 
and disgust the student with what, treated in a simple 
and practical way, may be made both useful and 
interesting,” 

“ Not many years ago,” says the same Author, the 
custom was very general in our colleges to oblige all 
students to go through the differential and integral 
calculus. This was done purely on the ground of dis- - 
cipline, for no one ever claimed that it was to be of 
any use to the student. It was found, however, after 
many years that except in rare cases the student 
utterly failed to get any return at all commensurate to 
the amount of time given to this study. For the 
greater number it was merely an inducement to shirk 
duty and a means of getting slovenly habits of study. 
It is now almost universally abandoned as a required 
study in college.” 

“ Much time,” says Mr. Thomas C. Clark, “ is 
wasted in our colleges and technical schools over the 
higher mathematics. Every engineer will agree with 
me that the cases where the use of the higher calculus 
is indispensable in our practice are so few that its 
study is not worth the time expended on it ; and we 
have the highest authority for saying that unless its 
use is constantly kept up we become too rusty to use 
it at all.” 

“ Practical engineers,” says Mr. Charles Bender, 
himself an accomplished mathematician, “generally 
do not place much confidence in long formulae and if 
they once have studied mathematics thoroughly, they 
lose the taste for their studies after some time of prac- 
tice since they have convinced themselves of the 
futility of ultra-refined theoretical speculations.” 

“ In our experience of nearly half a century as an 
engineer,” says Mr. J. W. Adams, “we have rarely 
found that engineers possessing this peculiar faculty 
for minute mathematical analysis, with the consequent 
reliance upon its infallibility which usually accom- 
panies it, were safe guides, either in the design or 
execution of novel projects.” 

“We often hear it stated,” says Mr. Vose, that the 
business of the school is not to deal with details but 
with what are somewhat vaguely termed general prin- 
ciples. I beli ve there never was a greater fallacy. 

*o general piinciple can possibly be applied to 
engineering construction except by means of practical 
details ) and in many cases the details are more impor- 
tant than the principles. I believe that just as 



engineering practice preceded engineering science, so 
in our course of instruction we must have a soil of 
practical conceptions in which the theoretical plant 
can grow. To give a young man an exhaustive theore- 
tical discussion in the school and to tell him that by- 
and-by he will run across the practical details, is very 
much like setting out a plant upon a brick side walk, 
and trusting to luck to get some earth about its roots 
at some future time.” 

The opinions above quoted emanate from men who 
stand high in the engineering profession and are 
worthy the consideration of every student in Applied 
Science. Fortunately for Canada, the men upon 
whose skill reliance is placed for carrying on the 
present engineering enterprises do not mentally dwell 
in etherial regions where none of the difficulties of 
defects in materials and workmanship enter to mar 
their beautiful theoretical calculations. They are 
eminently practical men and to such our graduates 
apply for situations. In the interests therefore, of the 
Faculty which we shall ever endeavor to uphold, it 
behoves every undergraduate in Science to prepare 
well for the particular work which he intends to pur- 
sue by giving most of his time to those studies which 
will be of greatest benefit to him in after life. 

FREE SPEECH. 

A correspondent, who for some inexplicable reason 
signs himself “ Free Speech,” attacks us for censuring 
the Arts Faculty which has lately aimed a successful 
blow at that very privilege of free speech, -which the 
people of this country are supposed so highly to value. 
As his letter has been framed with a good deal of 
misleading ingenuity, -wo purpose to discuss it point 
by point. Ho says: “the rule of submitting the 
questions for debate to the Faculty is not a new thing.” 
Truo ! the rule is not new. The members of the 
Undergraduates’ Society have known of this rule ever 
since the society came into existence ; they have 
twice before, if not oftener, been called upon to 
comply with that rule. Once they discussed it, and 
it will be within the memory of our correspondent 
that the society then determined to disband rather 
than submit ; the other time, or times, they quietly 
ignored the ukase of the Yice-dean. What did the 
Faculty do? Their wisdom on those occasions was 
truly commendable. They allowed themselves to for- 
get they had ever issued the decree. 

“ The Faculty have a perfect right to a direct con- 
trol over the proceedings of the U. L. S., when they 
both provide the hall in which its meetings are held 
and are responsible for the general conduct of its 
members as students,” says “Free Speech.” Have 



1884.] 



McGTLL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



5 



they indeed ? The Faculty undoubtedly are entrusted 
with the control of the college building for educational 
purposes, but they do not own that building, and 
though they have the power, it would be a gross 
breach of trust for them to prevent the U. L. S. from 
meeting in the building. It would be the easiest 
thing in the world to obtain affidavits from fifteen or 
twenty graduates to the effect that they had profited 
more by the discussions in that society than by any 
one of the courses of lectures. Again, the Faculty’s 
control over the students does not, and cannot, extend 
to their speech. If there is one birthright which is 
dear to the hearts of Canadians, it is that of unfettered 
expression of opinion on all subjects. Our corres- 
pondent says the U. L. S. simply submitted to con- 
stituted authority. If so, how far does this authority 
extend? If the Faculty may control public expres- 
sion of opinion, why not private ? No, this question 
is not one of expediency, but of principle.* As Cow- 
per says, “ corporations have no souls,” and the action 
of the Faculty is only another example of the un- 
necessarily harsh display of authority which men, 
highly estimable as individuals, will allow themselves 
to indulge in when associated together. 

The concluding part of his letter, “ Free Speech” 
devotes to abusing us for exercising that very quality. 
The Gazette arrogates to itself no right that is not the 
prerogative of every mail, and consequently of every 
paper which is a conveyance of the thought of men, 
throughout this country. In our prospectus we 
promised our readers to point out abuses boldly, and 
to frankly exercise our right of criticism. Here was 
a monstrous abuse, a body of men attempting to check 
an expression of opinion upon one of the most impor- 
tant questions of the day — a question which it is 
every Canadian’s duty to deliberate upon, that when 
the time for its determination comes, he may not be 
found undecided. What, then, was the duty of the 
editors of this paper ? Clearly to denounce in the 
strongest terms such an unwarrantable invasion of 
privilege. If, in so doing, wo had stepped beyond 
the bounds of our right or in any way injured the per- 
sons criticised, or if we ever do so, the aggrieved 
have their recourse in the courts of this Dominion. 
We acknowledge no oiher control than the law and 
our own honorable principles. 

A UNIVERSITY CLUB. 

Last year quite a number of our graduates allowed 
themselves to become interested in a project for the 
establishment of a University Club, a committee was 
appointed to make estimates of the cost of maintaining 
such a club, and the committee reported that at least 



two thousand dollars would be required in the first 
year and half as much each subsequent year, where- 
upon the scheme fell through. Not having the data 
upon wnich t his estimate was based in our possession, 
we are unable to understand how it came to be so 
extravagant. No club of college men can be started 
in this city, except in the most modest way, and for a 
very simple reason. Most of them, who are young 
enough to care, for a club, are engaged in a struggle 
for existence, which never allows them to be over- 
burdened with means. Yet there are many of these 
men who confess a longing for some place in which, 
the struggle being forgotten for a while, they may 
give themselves up to the enjoyment of quiet conver- 
sation with their peers, or find relaxation over a 
magazine or a game of chess. And why should this 
relaxation be denied them? Fifty men, willing to 
pay a first fee of five dollars, could furnish comfort- 
ably, though plainly, two rooms, and maintain them 
with all the appliances necessary to the purpose for 
a fee of one dollar a month each. A few details will 
make this clear. For two hundred dollars comfortable 
furniture for two rooms can be bought, and fifty 
dollars will cover the floors with a matting or woollen 
carpet. A house of ten rooms can be rented in a good 
quarter of the city for three hundred dollars, and 
surely two rooms, lighted and heated, can be secured 
for the same sum. This leaves three hundred dollars 
for magazines *and other necessary attractions. But it 
must be remembered that the men who frequent a 
club are its chiefest allurement. Besides, more than 
fifty members can doubtless be secured even at start- 
ing, for there cannot be less than two hundred avail- 
able men in the city. At any rate the advantages 
which a club, even of the most modest proportions, 
oilers are worthy of a determined effort to secure 
them. We are very anxious that such an effort should 
be made at once, and promise all the aid in our power 
to any who will undertake to galvanize our sluggish 
graduates into action. Meanwhile, we invite corres- 
pondence upon the subject. 



The University of Manitoba is considering the 
establishment of a Law Course. The medical matricu- 
lation has beeu arranged so that students may have 
their option between the subjects appointed by 
Manitoba University and those examined on by 
McGill. 

The Harvard Library contains 185,000 volumes; 
Yale, 115,000; Dartmouth, 60,000; Brown, 52,000; 
Columbia, 51,000; Princeton, 49,000; Cornell, 46,- 
000; Michigan, 45,000; Williams, 19,000; Iowa, 
18,000; Oberlin, 16,000; Minnesota, 15,000; and 
Cumberland, 8,000. 



6 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1884 . 



tLonlributions. 



FEDERATION OF THE EMPIRE.* 



The various items are as follows : 

Imports into the United Kingdom, 1883, (in Pounds 
sterling , the last three figures omitted) : 



Articles. 



Alkali 

Animals living : horned cattle 

Sheep 

Bacon and Hams 

Beet* fresh 

and pork salted 

Butter 

Cheese 

Corn: Wheat 

Oats 

Pease 

Maize or Indian Corn 

Barley and other 

Wheat flour 

Oatmeal 

Dye stuffs: Tanningextracts 

Fish 

Fruit: apples- 

Lard 

Leather . 

Manures : Phosphate of lime and rock 

Meat, preserved (otherwise than by salting). 

Oil : train or blubber 

Potatoes 

Skins and Fura 

Wood and timber: hewn 

Sawn and split 

Staves ' 

Furniture and house frames. 



iz 2 


c 

o 


.tf s 

^ a 


£ ‘55 




_ o 


Bm 


E* 


& 


Ig 






44 




1,144 


GO 


2i6 




493 




94 


5 


31 


2 


255 


13 


1,264 


1 


908 


G,532 


39 


26 


270 


17 


268 


16 


12 


6 


369 


54 


38 


1 


as 




552 


5 


46 


1 


218 




65 


2,498 


66 


57 


89 


534 


190 


63 




451 


190 


249 


1,617 


38 


3,012 




62 




34 


46 




81 
9,112 
2 518 
10,086 
2,260 
1,270 
11,773 
4,890 
31,454 
5,010 
746 
10 370 
5 741 
12,344 
196 
473 
2,302 
553 
2,247 
5,464 
813 
1,753 
430 
1,583 
],SS1 
4,967 
10,410 
641 
835 



£11,970 £10,775 £141,654 

Of the £11,970,000 Newfoundland’s share was £415,- 
000, leaving for Canada proper £11, 555,000 besides 
£209,000 of other articles not enumerated above, 
which makes the total- for Canada proper £11,764.- 
000, total for Newfoundland £519,000, for all British 
North America £12,283,000. We can see then that 
Canada’s market would, by such a policy as Mr. 
Bourne’s be increased about tenfold. And it is just 
such a market that we require for the rapid building 
up of our Northwest. An infinitely better market 
than the United States can be, because the States have 
themselves already a large surplus of all we can pro- 
duce. The best trade is that between countries 
whose products are dissimilar. It is clear of cour.se 
that Canada could not all of a sudden produce all 
this quantity. But India and- Australia have already 
sprung into great wheat growing countries. Australia 
also produces animals and meat. So all the colonies 
and free trade countries together could soon supply 
the English market. Canada however whould have 
an enormous advantage over all the nther colonies, 
being so much nearer the English markets, namely 10 
days steam passage, as compared with 28 days to 
Bombay the nearest port in India, 38 to Calcutta, 50 
days to Hongkong in China, and for 30 to 40 days to 
Australia. What a stupendous effect this would have 
on our trade, on our riches ! It would be untold 
millions to us. Eor every dollar of additional tax- 
ation we should have to pay, we would have five, ten, 
twenty dollars to pay it with. 

• President '« A/uiuul Addre hh to University Literary Society. 



But to enable Canada to produce this, she must 
have more people. And this is another thing that 
England can supply her with. The surplus population 
of England would pour rapidly into our North west, 
if it were no longer a colony, but had become an 
integral part of the Empire. By the influx of a large 
number of immigrants, we might in a single year go 
a long way towards filling up the gap between our 
capability of production and the requirements of the 
English markets. Put a hundred thousand English 
farmers into the north west in the spring, and in the 
fall they would have abundant crops to ship back to 
England. Now in the past the English have not been 
to the extent they should, an emigrating people. 
Contrary to what is generally supposed, there is a 
comparatively small number of Englishmen or Scotch- 
men in the United States. According to the last 
American Census, the total number of inhabitants who 
had been born in England and Wales was 745,000 
drawn from a population in England of over 25,000,- 
000; 170,000 born in Scotland, drawn from a popula- 
tion of over 3,500,000, making 915,000 from Great 
Britain. The Irish on the other hand have been 
more largely an emigrating people; of those in the 
United States born in Ireland, there were 1,854,000, 
from a population in Ireland of slightly over 5,000,000. 

Even now for the English and Scotch, the attractive 
force of the colonies is much greater than that of the 
United States ; for while an American population of 

50.000. 000 has drawn only 915,000, or less than 2 per 
cent, a Canadian population of 4,500,000 has drawn 

284.000, or 6.33 per cent, and a population of 900,000 
in Victoria, the most populous of the Australian 
colonies, has drawn 201,000 or 22 per cent. I have 
not been able to get the census statistics of the other 
Australian colonies, but from other sources of infor- 
mation obtained through the kindness of Mr. Macmaster 
M.P. from the Parliamentary library at Ottawa, I 
have b$en able to estimate that the net emigration of 
English and Scotch to Australia, during the 31 years 
from 1858 to 1883 has been 25.24 per cent, of their 
present population. The reverse of this holds true for 
the Irish emigrants, but let us hope that under the 
new regime of governing Ireland on the principles of 
equity and justice, their warm and loyal affections 
may be united to our great Empire, firmly as those of 
the English and Scotch. As an emigration plan then 
Mr. Bourne’s is one of the most magnificent that 
could be devised. 

And what policy would be such a mine of wealth 
to our. great Railways ? To bring the produce of our 
North West to the seaboard at Montreal would almost 
overtax the carrying powers of the Canadian Pacific 
Railway. They would very soon begin to pay good 
dividends. Instead of being handicapped by their 
great transcontinental rivals, they would have the 
best trade of the country. And if they were wise in 
not overcharging the farmers, they might retain their 
trade for many years. Possibly in course of time, so 
great would be the export, that another outlet would 
have to be sought ; and the Hudson’s Bay route would 
be opened up. lor like Sir Richard Temple, I 
believe that the Hudson’s Bay route is a possibility. 

If the Hudson’s Bay Company have been able to navi- 



1884.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



7 



gate it for a hundred years, with little wooden sailing 
ships, surely specially built iron steamships would be 
able to. Undoubtedly by that time also, and perhaps 
if Rumour speaks true long before, the tea trade of 
China and Japan will have sought this as the shortest 
and best line to Europe. The Grand Trunk also 
would find its traffic, both inward and outward, enor- 
mously increased. For the rich province of Ontario 
will supply almost unlimited traffic to this great 
railway when once restrictions at the seaboard are 
minimised, and imports pass back and forward as 
freely as the products of the Country, and possibly the 
new Bonaventure Station might be built. While our 
shipping both in the Province of Quebec and in the 
Maritime Provinces, would be vastly stimulated. 
Becoming part of Britannia, we would like Britannia, 
rule the waves. 

But I shall be told our manufactures would be 
ruined, that we should be turned into a purely agri- 
cultural community, that the cities would disappear 
from the face of the earth. Well I am not going into 
the question as to which is the more desirable popula- 
tion, a rural or an urban. 1 would not discriminate 
against either ; let each have fair play, and allow 
people to follow their natural bent. But I do not 
think in a country like Canada with a northwest such 
as we have to open up, it is wise to discourage the 
farmers. I propose however to show that Canadian 
manufactured would not die, but that they would be 
manifestly benefited by the policy I am now advocat- 
ing. I assert that by far the larger number of Cana- 
dian manufactures have nothing to fear from the 
manufacturers of England, that the great bulk of 
manufactures therefore would be actually benefited by 
a policy of. free trade with England, and prohibition 
against the United States. This will appear in two 
ways. First, if under the old tariff the United States 
were able to compete with England, in any manufac- 
ture for which we have equal natural facilities with 
the United States, Canada, upon the United States 
being shut out from competition, would be able to 
compete with England. This may not apply to cotton 
in which the United States have the raw material 
closer at hand, nor possibly to some kinds of hardware 
so far as their production in the United States depends 
upon the supply of iron in Pennsylvania. Though 
in the latter case, if, as I am informed is the case, the 
reason we bought our axes, chisels and other edge 
tools from the States, was not that they were cheaper 
than the same classes of articles produced in England, 
but because they were of a pattern that the English 
manufacturers did not produce, in that case Canada 
would be well able to compete # with England. For 
English makers are sometimes slow at adopti g a new 
pattern, but manufacturers in Canada could adopt and 
have adopted these. And with pig iron still imported 
from England cheaper than it can be produced in 
Pennsylvania in spite of a single transaction to the 
contrary, we should be able to hold our own. Here 
them is a list of manufactured goods, in which under 
the old tariff the United States competed with England, 
in some supplying a larger in others a smaller quantity 
And it will be remembered that there was no discrimi- 
nation against either. These are taken from the lie- 



turns for 1879, and include only articles whose import 
exceeded §100,000, and only those that I believe are 
now manufactured in Canada. 



IMPORTS INTO CANADA, YEAR ENDING 30tii JUNE 1879. 



Articles From United States From United Kingdom 



Refined Sugar 3.000 000 

11a ldwiire ....(1345)-. . L3I5.000 

Cotton Jeans l,U13,t>00 

Manufactures 94-5,000 

Rlcuchcd and Unbleach’d 017.000 

Small wares 649/>00 

Sugar, Low grades • 470.000 

Hats and caps 421.000 

Wood manufactures N.E.S. 274, 00 

Pianos 273.000 

Iron Castings and stoves — 248,000 

Wood Furniture. . 237,000 

< 'oal# Bituminous 223,000 

Boots and shoes 173,000 

Tobacco 177,000 

Cotton Clothing 169,000 

Paper 166,000 

Drugs 146,600 

Leather 131,000 

Wool manufactures 124,00) 

Sailcloth 124.000 

Fancy Goods 117,000 

Straw hats 105,000 

Carriages 103,000 



1 . 100,000 

391.000 

1 .535 .000 
1 #773*000 

2-56,000 

1.242.000 

74.000 

225.000 

24.000 

14.0 0 

44.000 

10.000 

111.000 
1-5,000 
16,000 

145.000 

32.000 
191.0CO 

72.000 

4.230.000 

40.000 

404.000 

96.000 
3, 00 



$11,275,000 



$12,049,000 



If then Canada could manufacture $11,000,000 of 
manufactured goods that were formerly imported from 
the United States, that would certainly give an impetus 
to certain branches of trade. 

But there is another way in which we can arrive at 
the effect that would be produced upon our manufac- 
tures by free trade with England and prohibition 
against the United States. Taking the list of our 
manufacturing industries given in the new Census, we 
find that 60 per cent of all industries employing more 
than 2000 hands were the following : Saw mills; 

Boots and Shoes, Carriage making, Preserved food, 
Flour and grist mills, Cabinet and furniture, Carpen- 
ters and Joiners, Tanneries, Ship yards, Agricultural 
Implements, Tobacco, Cooperage, Harness and Saddle- 
ry, Sash, door and blind factories, Shingle making, 
and Cheese factories, — these giving employment to 

127.000 out of 155,000. They have nothing to fear 
from English, and they would certainly be benefited 
by exclusion of American competition. Again 17 per 
cent, more were engage in the fallowing : Blacksmjth- 
.ing, Dressmaking, Printing, Brick and tile making, 
Bakeries, and Limekilns ; which employ 36,000 more. 
These I believe would not be injuriously affected by 
free trade with England. The two make together 

163.000 out of 210,000, or 77 per cent. The same 
percentage would hold good for the minor industries, — 
those employing a smaller number of hands. The 
total industrial employees were 255,000 of which 77 
per cent, is 196,000. These I claim would gain. 
Even the others though they would have to face English 
competition, would have eheaper raw material and 
machinery than they have now and would have the 
protection afforded by the cost of ca riage from England 
to Canada. I think therefore I am right in saying 
that the only class that could in any way suffer, would 
be a small fraction of Hot house Protegees, whose 
industries should never have been established in the 
country, as we do not possess natural facilities for 
carrying them on profitably. 

('To be continued .) 



8 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1884 . 



JFlciBill News. 



The Medical Dinner. 

The undergrad ua'es in Medicine held their annual 
dinner at the Windsor Hotel, on Thursday evening, 
Dec. 4th, about 140 gentlemen sitting down to a bill- 
of-fare that would have satisfied a Sybarite. The din- 
ner was on the whole a success especially for the first 
half of the programme, but the inordinate length of 
time to which it was protracted evidently proved too 
much for the ‘ staying ’ powers of most of the guests, 
for the end of the proceedings which did not occur 
until two o’clock in the morning saw but a small 
sprinkling of them at the table. The commiftee, 
whose labors we cannot too highly commend, had 
evidently denied themselves no trouble in the prepara- 
tion of the dinner and were ably seconded by the 
competent co-operation of the Windsor officials. 

After the dinner had been fully discussed, the 
Secretary to the Committee read letters of regret from 
His Excellency the Marquis of Lansdowne, His Honor 
Lieut.-Governor Masson, U. S. Consul-General Stearns, 
Sir. F. Hincks, Judge Mackay, Judge Torrance, H. 
McLennan, G. Hague, 11. A. Iiamsav, Joseph Hickson, 
H. Mackay, M. H. Gault, M.P., Hon. J. Hamilton, 
Andrew Allan, G. A. Drummond, A. F. Gault, Dr. 
Grant, Dr. McEachran, W. J. Mitchell, — president 
London, Ont. Hospital, — Dr. Roddick, Dr. Fenwick, 
and from Dr. Osier, whose name of course was cheered 
to the echo. 

The Chairman, Mr. Harkin, in an amusing intro- 
ductory speech traced the History of Dinning from the 
primitive al fresco repasts of the garden of Eden to 
those of the present day, with an exhaustive treatment 
of the Archaeology of Gastromomy. After sketching 
the evolution of the present Annual Undergraduates’ 
Dinner from the primal germ of the first Footing 
Dinner of 1856, and contrasting the two most advan- 
tageously for the former, he went on to touch in an 
unwary moment on the subject of the Higher Educa- 
tion of Women. In describing, by-the-bye, the mis- 
siles that would probably be employed in a domestic 
conflict — an event which he threatened his audience 
woud inevitably overtake such of them as chose their 
helpmeets from among the Highly Educated, — his 
speculations led him to the use of a geological term 
(as yet, we believe, not in currency) which nearly 
brought a fit upon the distinguished guest on his right. 
After a few more humorous remarks upon the same sub- 
ject, he took his seat amid much applause. 

The first toast on the card was that of “ The Queen,” 
having been drunk to the accompaniment of “ The 
National Anthem,” was followed by that of the 
Governor-General” and “ Lieut.- Governor.” 

The next toast, to the “ President of the United 
States,” was proposed by Mr. D. McG. DeCow, who 
expressed the hearty good wishes of the company for 
their cousins across the border, among whom were so 
so many of their friends, and by whom so many McGill 
graduates were adopted, 

He was followed by a duet, “The Larboard Watch” 
sung by Messrs. Orton and Pomeroy, after which Prof. 
Penhallow rose to respond to the toast. He uttered a 



regret for the absence of the President of the United 
States and expressed a belief that the mutual good 
feeling between Canadians and Americans would be 
perpetuated, especially in view of the result of the late 
elections. He emphasized the assertion that the unity 
between the two great English speaking nations was a 
real one and that most Americans looked upon England 
as the mother country and were proud to trace their 
descent from Englishmen. “ The University” was pro- 
posed in a short speech by the second vice-chairman, 
Mr. A. D. McDonald. 

The Principal Sir Willsam Dawson, who was received 
with enthusiastic cheers, took for the text of this reply 
the quotation appended to the toast : — 

Thanks for the Lessons of this Spot. 

In taking advantage of the dubious application of 
the words “ this spot,” he divided his remarks so as 
to cover both the lessons of the dinner table and the 
lessons to be learned from the University. The latter 
were the intendependence of Graduates and Professors, 
their mutual debts, and communitity of interests. The 
generosity of our Alma Mater , he urged upon his 
hearers, should be repaid fully and with interest by her 
alumni with efforts to promote the welfare of the 
University abroad and at home, and “ to raise the name 
of McGill in the history of the world.” In touching 
upon the lessons of the Dinner table he referred to a 
proposition broached upon a similar occasion last year, 
namely the erection of a dining hall for the use of the 
undergraduates. After dating the concurrence of opi- 
nion upon the subject among the heads of the University 
he proceeded to assure the undergraduates that at no dis- 
tant date their assembling together for dining purposes 
would be changed from an annual to a daily occurrence, 
citing the instance of the historic ant (by the way we 
thought it was a spider) as an example of the persever- 
ance of the McGill authorities in matters of reform. 
Proceeding then to a discussion of Female Education 
he criticised the premises and deductions drawn from 
the character of Eve as an uneducated person were very 
different from those that might have been deduced had 
that lady been a graduate of McGill. In conclusion 
he re-assured his hearers that Mr. Harkin’s threats were 
idle, that all they had to fear from * sweet girl gra- 
duates ’ was their possible superiority in examinations, 
and hoped that they would meet no worse fate than the 
possessions of one of these ladies for a wife. 

After the burst of applause which greeted the best 
speech of the evening, had subsided “ the tuneful 
Choir ” sang “ Alma Mater .” 

“ The Dean and Professors ” was given was given by 
Mr. R. T. Irvine in a shortspeech, expressive of the es- 
teem and veneration entertained by the students for 
their teachers, and bestowing a well-earnod encomium 
upon labours which, he feared, obtained scarcely a tithe 
of the praise they deserved. 

The heartiness of the cheers that greeted Mr. Irvine’s 
speech testified to the sincerity of the undergraduate 
feeling toward their professors. 

Dr. II. P. Howard, the Dean of the Medical Faculty, 
in reply, thanked the students for their cordial recep- 
tion of the toast, stating his conviction that it was no 
conventional tribute born of the occasion, but the ex- 



1884 .] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



9 



pression of a regard that had evolved into an affection, 
based upon the mutual interests of professors and un- 
dergraduates. Ihe interests of the professors, he said, 
were to give the best foundation in medical science to 
their pupils, to enkindle in them a love of learning for 
its own sake, and to inculcate those higher principles 
by which men of science should be actuated ; and that 
the interests of the students consisted not only in indi- 
vidually availing themselves of those advantages, but 
to co-operate in maintaining them by perpetuating the 
dignity and importance which has always characterised 
McGill, and that standard of excellence, both among 
professors and undergraduates, which had made the 
University what it is — a result obtainable only by 
co-operation ; let them strive to make the possession of 
a xVlcGill degree as enviable a passport to society as the 
magic Civis-Romanus Sum of the Romans. In an 
eloquent reference to Dr. Osier’s departure, he ex- 
pressed his sorrow for a loss whioh no one could appre- 
ciate so fully as himself, a loss which, however, much 
may have been professionally repaired by his able suc- 
cessor, could never be personally compensated for. 
After an allusion to the project of a University Dining 
Hall, ^mentioned by the Principal, and pledging his 
assistance to the scheme, the Dean took his seat amid 
prolonged applause. [ Concluded in our next. ] 

The following is a letter received from Dr. Osier in 
acknowledgement of a testimonial — in the shape of a 
gold watch — sent him by his former pupils of the 2nd, 
3rd and 4th year men in Medicine : — 

University of Pennsylvania, 

Philadelphia, Dec. 4th, 1884. 

To the members of classes 9 85 , ’86 and ’87. 

My dear students, for so you always were, and to 
address you so expresses my feelings still, I cannot 
tell you how much I appreciate your great kindness 
in sending the beautiful present which I have just 
received. I thank you for it most sincerely. 

But I have to thank you and your predecessors of 
nine classes for a present even richer and more endur- 
ing, one which I esteem above anythiug I possess, 
your confidence and your love ; the consciousness 
that during the ten years of my sojourn at McGill I 
won the esteem of the successive classes, lies deep 
among my most cherished feelings, and shall ever be 
indissolubly joined in my mind with those most 
sacred and enduring memories of, family, home and 
friendship. As I look into the future such a feeling 
is at once a comfort and a stimulus, dashed though it 
be at present with the thought that there was an ele- 
ment of ingratitude in leaving McGill, an Alma Mater 
so kind, students so devoted and colleagues so con- 
siderate : but this source of present worry, time with 
its kindly friction will doubtless efface. 

That time which you have enabled me to measure 
more accurately will soon bring upon you the serious 
responsibilities of life, and amid the busy cares of 
practice the memories of your college days will grow 
dim as a dream at noonday. But there will come 
critical periods in your careers — of doubt, of anxiety 
and perhaps of mental distress — in which your 
thoughts will turn back to your old teachers and the 



effect of their influence or example will then become 
manifest, and if in such moments any words of mine 
or the influence of my work among you enables you 
the better to battle with difficulties within or without, 
my labor will not have been in vain. 

I remain, 

Your former teacher 

And ever your friend. 

William Osler. 



The rush of books will shortly necessitate the pro- 
viding of more accommodation in the Library. A 
large case for books in front of the window facing the 
door is proposed, and cases for the same purpose to 
stand where the reading tables are now placed are 
talked of. In the latter event, readers would take 
refuge in the alcoves. 

The only result of the recent controversy upon the 
question of separate or co-education seems to be that 
the Faculty are now more bent than ever upon pur- 
suing the former policy. They have announced that 
the ladies will not be ranked with the freshmen in the 
Xmas examination. 

An improvement is to be effected in the Arts Read- 
ing Room by the removal of the antiquated desk, and 
the substitution of a new and tastefully designed 
article to replace the aforesaid relic. 



Societies. 



Undergraduates’ Literary Society. 

The great interest taken in this society during the 
present term was manifested by the very large atten- 
dance at its meetings. The opening meeting was held 
on Oct. 3rd, when the following officers were elected : 
— President, A. H. U. Colqulioun ; 1st vice-president, 
N. P. Yates ; 2nd vice-president, R. Henderson ; secre- 
tary, S. Moore ; asst. -sec., T. Henderson ; treasurer, 
E. P. Matthewson; committee, Messrs. G. F. Calder, 
J. McDougall, F. Fopp, A. P. Murray and Wm. 
Loch head. 

The following gentlemen have favored the society 
with essays, all of which were exceedingly interesting : 
Mr. Lochhead, “ The Gulf Stream,” Mr. Patterson, “An 
Essay on the Press ; ” Mr. Colqulioun, “ The Life of 
James Payne;” Mr. H. S. McLennan, “ A Practical 
Study of the Ehench Language;” Mr. McDougall, 
“The Battle of Cliateauguay ; ” Mr. EYank Pedlky, 
“ The Darwin Theory ; ” and also one by Mr. Dalpi. 
The following subjects have been debated during the 
present session: — “The Abolition of the House of 
Lords,” “ Reciprocity between United States and 
Canada,” “ Would the passing of the Scott Act be 
beneficial to Canada,” “ Should Canada elect her own 
Governor-General,” which were decided in favor of the 
affirmative, and “ Should the German system of ex- 
amination be substituted for that in use in Canada,” 
“ Are the mental capacities of the male sex superior to 
those of the female,” “The Annexation of Jamaica,” 
“ Is the existence of parties in the State beneficial to 
the public welfare,” which were decided negatively. 
The Constitution, Rules of Order and By-Laws are 



10 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE.. 



[1884. 



about to be reprinted, several changes having been 
made since the formation of the society. According 
to the present regulations all undergraduates are 
elegible for membership ; thus allowing students in 
the Medical Faculty to become members. The result 
is that already some have become enrolled and not a 
small amount of talent, it is expected, will be added to 
the debating power of the society; The Faculty have 
insisted that all subjects shall be submitted to the 
Principal for his approval before being debated. Pro- 
fessor Harrington will deliver an address to the society 
some time in January. 

The closing meeting of the term was held December 
5th, and although the proximity of the Christmas 
Examinations caused a diminution in the attendance, 
the evening was a success in other respects. A 
reading from Mr. Yates was followed by an interest- 
ing debate on the questions “ Should the Canadian 
Universities be represented in Parliament,” The 
speakers on the affirmative side were Messrs. W. A. 
Cameron, C. Ross and Mason, those on the negative 
side being Messrs. C. W. Colby, R. S. Hill, and G. F. 
Calder. The vote was decided in favor of the affirma- 
tive. Two features of the debate are worthy of note. 
Mr. Calder, who was kind enough to supply the place 
of an absent speaker, and did so most ably, remarked 
that he was speaking in opposition to his convictions, 
and impressed upon the members the necessity of fill- 
ing their appointed places in debates regardless of 
private opinions. The other feature was the excep- 
tionably good manner in which the younger speakers 
stated their arguments. Upon the whole the meetings 
up to the present have been very successful ; but lately 
there has been an unwillingness on the part of mem- 
bers to turn up unless their names are on the pro- 
gramme. This, as the President pointed out at the last 
meeting, is a great mistake ; for those who refuse to 
listen while others do the talking, will find slim 
audiences when their turn comes, and besides, it is 
much more invigorating, and better practice to face a 
large than a small number of hearers. 

University Literary Society. 

The meeting of this society on Dec. 5 was occupied 
with a discussion of the question, %i Should restric- 
tions be placed upon the admission of the Chinese 
into Canada ? ” Messrs. J. P. Cooke and Barnard 
supported the affirmative, and Messrs. W. E. Dickson 
and C. J. Doherty the negative, the former arguing 
that, because of their exclusiveness, attachment to 
China, and immorality, the Chinese made bad citizens, 
the latter pleading that the question was one of simple 
right and wrong, and denying the right of Canada, or 
any country, to exclude these people. The negative 
side also denied with weight of authority the allega- 
tions made against the Chinese by their opponents, 
claiming for the whole nation honesty, industry, and 
morality. The meeting which was unusually large, 
decided the question in the negative, after hearing 
several volunteer speakers. 



The libraries of the largest Law Colleges are : — 
Michigan, 4,120 vols. ; Hamilton College, 5,000; 
Columbia, 7,500; Yale, 8,000; and Harvard, 21,000. 



College Ulorld. 



Brown University has fillen heir to $50,000. 

Ohio Wesleyan University has a Chinese girl. 

I he Iowa State Agricultural College is lighted by electri- 
city. 

The wealthiest college in the world is located at Leyden, 
Holland. 

The total value of Columbia College was recently estimated 
at $6,000,000. 

The Senior class at Cornell has assessed each member $13 
to pay expenses of class day. 

At Princeton College, students are allowed twenty-five 
unexcused absences in each term. 

At Amherst and Kenyon, students who obtain an average 
rank of ?5 per cent, are excused from examination on that 
subject at the end of the term. 

Vanderbilt has given $5,000,000 to the college of Physi- 
cians and burgeons, in New York, for the erection of more 
convenient and commodious buildings. 

At, Harvard no man is allowed to compete in athletic 
exercises until he has undergone a physical examination by 
Dr. Sargent, the gymnasium instructor. 

The attendance at Ann Arbor, last year, was 1,564, at 
Columbia, 1,520, ; at Harvard, 1,522 ; at Oberlin, 1,474 ; at 
Yale, 1,070 ; at University of Pennsylvania, 1,044. 

The library at Columbia has been open all summer, from 
early morn till ten at night, for the benefit of those who 
wished to continue their studies during the vacation. 

The Freshman class at Cornell numbers 213. That of 
Hamilton has dropped to 45. Yale numbers 145, Harvard 
229, Bowdoin 30 and University of Wisconsin 25. 

The De Pauw University, at Greencastle, Indiana, is to have 
eight mew buildings. One each for the departments of law 
medicine and theology, two dormitories and other structures. 
They are to be erected immediately. 



The new gymnasium, which by the kindness of an alumnus 
has been recently erected at Amherst, is 120 feet long by 80 
feet wide, and with equipments, cost about $88,000. Amherst 
was the first college originating, and is the only one which 
has been able to maintain a regular and required system of 
gymnastic discipline for a 1 ! its students. 



A graduate of Edinburg computes the cost of living at that 
University as follows : — 

Lodging, at 15s. a week, §189 28 

Incidentals, weekly, $1.50, 73 00 

University Fees, * 45 qo 

Matriculation, 4 gg 

Clothing, say * 80 00 

In a medical class, the items §45 90 and §4 86, must be 
replaced by $131.10, making the total in that case $478.63. 
between the lectures. 



During the present year the convocation of Oxford 
University has decided, by a vote of 464 to 321, to 
admit woman to a participation in the honor examina- 
tions. Canon Liddon was strongly opposed to the 
measure, and his influence was hurtful to the proposi- 
tion. Arguments against the higher education of 
woman were drawn from isolated texts of Scripture. 

The election of officers for the Queen’s College, 
Kingston, “ Alma Mater Society," was held Dec. 6°ih 
and resulted as follows : — President, F. Mowat ;• vice- 
president, W. J. Kidd ; secretary, J. Foxton ; asst.- 
sec., W. Rankin ; treasurer, N. H. Dunning; critic, 
C. J. Cameron ; committee, A. D. Cartwright, H. 
Dame, E. Pirie, S. Richards, Gordon Smith. ° 



1884 .] 



.McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



11 



Toronto University has 114 freshmen this year. 

About ninety new students entered Vassar this 
fall. 

An American college is to be established at Shanghai, 
China. 

Mount Allison College has recently opened a new 
Memorial Hall. 

The faculty of Yale has warned fifty sophomores on 
account of low standing. 

Princeton is to have a Latin comedy presented by 
the students in the near future. 

Of eight $200 scholarships recently awarded at Cor- 
nell four went to lady students. 

Every member of the Faculty of Amherst College 
is an alumnus of that institution. 

The Catholic Colleges of the United States have 
500 professors and 10,000 students. 

Harvard has now 167 teachers, 25 librarians, proctors, 
and other officers, and 1522 students. • 

The publication of the Yale Quip has been discon- 
tinued, on account of lack of support. 

The University of Madras has graduated 899 stu- 
dents, of whom not one has been a Christian. 

Free trade is taught at Williamson, Yale, Harvard 
and Amherst. Princeton is undecided which to 
teach. 

Harvard has adopted the liberal plan of giving 
its professors one year in every seven for private 
study. 

The whole number of students in the collegiate de- 
partments of the colleges in the United States is 
32,000. 

Dalhousie Law College now boasts of 2 Professors, 
6 Lecturers, and a Library of between 4,000 and 5,000 
volumes. 

Two new universities are to be established in Dakota, 
Dakota University at Mitchell, and Tower University 
at Tower City. 

The average age of the Freshman class at Yale is 
nineteen years and one month. Fifteen per cent of 
them use tobacco. 

It is proposed that a Chair in Political Economy be 
founded in Queen’s College, Kingston, called the John 
A. McDonald Chair. 

A Harvard graduate in London is agitating the 
scheme of sending an American intercollegiate foot- 
ball team to England. 

There are twenty American girls studying at the 
University of Zurich. They are admitted upon equal 
terms with the male students. 

Of the 320 colleges and universities in the United 
States, but 24 have more than 200 students, and only 
17 have more than 20 teachers. 

German is the most popular language at Yale, and 
the number who take it exceeds the number of those 
who chose the ancient languages. 

A Thousand dollar scholarship has just been given 
to Dartmouth on the condition that no one shall re- 
ceive the benefit of it who uses liquors or tobacco. 



A scholarship to send a student abroad each year 
for a two years’ study of Architecture, has been estab- 
lished by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 

In the United States there are 144 theological schools, 
with 624 instructors, and 4,793 students. There are 126 
medical schools, with 1,649 professors, and 14,536 
students. 

There are thirty-one colored students in the Fresh- 
man classes at Yale. Of these seven are students in 
Law, eleven Divinity, and the remaining thirteen 
Medicine. 

In the new Oriental College, in England, affairs are 
arranged in such a manner that whether the student is 
a Hindoo or Musselman, he can live in his own way. 
as though at home in India. 

Charles Colby has given a round $1,000,000 to es- 
tablish a new university in Wisconsin. It w'as his 
father, Gardiner Colby, who endowed Colby College, 
at Waterville, Maine. 

The students of Harvard have presented a petition 
to the Overseers asking that for students of twenty- 
one and older, attendance on prayers be not compul- 
sory, nor for younger students unless their guardians 
so desire. 

The five hundredth anniversary of the foundation 
of the University' of Heidelberg occurs in 1886, and 
preparations are already being made for its celebration, 
which promises to be one of the most imposing ever 
seen in Germany. 

Mr. Kingsford, a graduate and member of Toronto 
University Senate has given notice that he will intro- 
duce a motion recommending the Senate to allow $50 
a year to the ’ Varsity , for publishing the official re- 
ports of the Senate’s meetings 

An extraordinary example of vandalism recently 
occurred at Harvard. One morning, not long ago, the 
newly erected statue of John Harvard was found to 
have been covered with a coat of black paint, and the 
Appleton Chapel was adorned with the inscription 
“ 88 ” in letters four feet long. 



He was sittingat the window 
As she fell ; 

I think it was a sin : do 
You as well? 

He turned not away his head— 
They were silk, and coloured red. 
Don’t you tell.— Ax. 



ADAPTED TO THE SEASON. 

Who can tell what a Freshman thinks? 

Who can fathom the gossamer links 
By which the manikin feels his way 
From darkness into the light of day. 

Gleefully entering the erreat unknown 

Region of Greek and Latin and Bohn ? Student . 



CONFESSION. 

“ Tell me this,” he softly murmured, 

44 Do you love me true ? ” 

And she answered, shyly blushing, 

44 Love you ? yes, I do.” 

Turning then his glance upon her, 

Solemnly and slow ; 

44 Thanks,” he answered absently. 

44 i only wished to know.” —Polytechnic. 



12 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1884. 



Between the lectu es. 



AN ELEGY IN A CITY BONEYARD. 

That cowbell tolls the hour of parting day, 

The loafing herd wind slowly down to tea, 

The ploughedons homewards plods his beery way, 
And leaves the world to Cook, the dog, and me. 

Fade now the glittering gas-jets out of sight, 

And all the air ap odourous stillness hath, 

Save where the guinea-pigs and rabbits fight, 

And drowsy tad-poles wriggle in their bath. 

Save that in yon ammonia-scented room, 

The moping Cook doth to the Dean complain 
Of such as wandering near that fragrant tomb 
Molest his secret, sub-injecting reign. 

Within those leaky tanks, those pickling vats, 

Well salted down in ZnCb, 

Each in his narrow cell the prey of rats, 

There slumber Xmas Xtras not a few. 

The tempting scent of onion-breathing fry, 

The tom-cat squalling from the cord-wood shed 
The cook’s shrill “ Breakfast » ” or the horn of rye 
No more shall rouse them from their lowly bed. 

For them no more th’ arthritic pains return, 

Or strumous glands engage their every care, 

From them the Freshman’s part ’twill be to learn 
To carve their tissues and lay structures bare. 

Oft did their tumors to the scalpel yield, 

Their femurs oft MacEwan’s chisel broke ; 

What curious reflexes their limbs revealed 
When brought in with an apoplectic stroke ! 

Let not the Freshmen mock their useful sphere, 

Nor their unshaven face and bark’d shins snub, 
Nor Finals tell with a disdainful sneer, 

The short and simple annals of a sub. 

Not theirs to ride in Tees’ or Armstrong’s hearse, 
O’er them no pompous ostrich feathers wave, 

No tombstone bears their virtues writ iu verse, 

The elevator leads not to the grave. 

Can Poker, Nap., or Crimson-painting bust 

Back to its thorax call the Cheyne-stokes breath ? 
Can Captains voice seduce the thirstless dust, 

Or Cavalho soothe the gastric juice of death ? 

Perhaps thro’ this sequestered spot is strewn, • 

Some heart, of mitral murmur now long dead, 
Lungs, that the rales of phthisis might have shewn, 
And waked to ecstasy the listening med. 

Some Martin, through whose fistula dry d eased. 

No Beaumont watched the gastric juice at play, 
Some Hayvern with four co ivolutions blessed, 

Some 1 • crowbar case”#within these walls may lay. 

Full many a case of pure leukhoemic skeen 
Is hid perhaps in this unfathomed cave : 

Full many a kidney suppurates unseen 

And wastes its sweetness on a nameless grave. 

Their names and years on greasy cards are spelt 
Religion— P or R — is wr.t there too, 

The latter to « supply a want long felt,’ 

And teach sectarian larvae which to chew. 

Oft for his cough the Mist. Pect. Chron. we tried 
Or would wnh four-grain drops his eyes instil ; 
Gave him galore ot Potas : Icdid : 

Aad title J. hiji up With every sj*t of pill. 



Haply some oft. plucked chronic then may say 
“Oft have I seen him at the Oxford bar, 

Brushing with hasty s eeve the froth away, 

Or purchasing a two-for-five cigar.” 

“One night I mbsed him at the customed pub., 

Beside the bar an 1 near his favorite beer, 

Another came ; no.*, when I went to grub, 

Did he for hash, nor yet for pie appear.” 

The next from off a wood-sleigh (’twas his hearse) 

We saw him through the Students’ Entrance hauled, 
Approach and read (1 never read) the verse 
Upon the wall in coloured crayon scrawled. 



THE EPITAPH. 

Here rests his head, this greasy coat beneath, 

A youth to graveyard and to vault unknown : 
No Burial Service solemnized his death — 

The Demonstrator marked him for his own. 

Large was his femur, and his landmarks clear, 
Whiskey a liver did as large bestow. 

And when he died he gave his corpse I fear 

Twas all he had of chattels here below. 



£orrespon6ence. 



To the Editors of the McGill College Gazette ; 

Gentlemen, — To even a casual observer, it must ap- 
pear that the plea for the defendant set forth by your 
anonymous correspondent in a late issue is but a par- 
tial and incomplete one, dictated under the influence 
of a righteous indignation, rather than written with the 
intention of sifting the matter to the bottom. I desire 
in this communication to deal with the question merely 
in its legal aspect, feeling assured that Mr. Elder’s 
“ brief and manly speech ” must have convinced any 
unprejudiced individual on the personal merits of the 
case. 

It is hardly necessary for me to lay stress upon the 
fact that all civilized associations, meeting habitually or 
occasionally for the purpose of deliberation, have, in 
default of a constitution of their own, adopted as the 
basis of their transactions the Parliamentary system of 
procedure existing in their country. Moreover, the 
persons who have contested Mr. Elder’s election, hav- 
ing placed themselves on this basis, it is not incumbent 
upon me to undertake its defence. 

The question then appears to me to resolve itself into 
two parts. Firstly, was Mr. Elder’s election to the office 
of Chairman of the Annual Dinner of the Faculty of 
Medicine duly and legally conducted, or the reverse ] 
Secondly, if the former alternative were true, could the 
election be annulled ? 

With reference to the first point, the facts are as fol- 
lows : On Monday, I\ T ov. 10th, a notice appeared on 
the bulletin-board of the Medical Faculty, signed by 
the President of the fourth year, calling a meeting of 
the students of the Faculty for 5 o’clock p.m., in°the 
Chemistry Lecture-room, to elect the Chairman of the 
Annual Dinner. The meeting was held at the ap- 
pointed hour and in the locality named, there being a 
lull attendance ol students. 1 wo nominations were 
finally agreed upon —Mr. Elder’s and Mr. McCannon’s. 
Here, then , at this stage of the proceedings , or never, 
should objections, either of a general or of a personal 



1884.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



13 



nature, have been raised against the election of either 
candidate. The opportunity was certainly offered, yet 
no one ventured even the slightest disparaging remark. 
The point raised at the subsequent meeting, viz., that 
Mr. Elder was a member of a secret society was not 
ev.en alluded to. Why not? Surely if it were admis- 
sible to raise this objection after the election, it would 
have been all the more relevant before it. Looked at 
from this point of view it certainly has the appearance 
of an after-thought, concocted by a minority chafing 
under defeat and at their wits’ ends for arguments. To 
return to the meeting. The Chairman then called for 
a division, and the resulting vote gave a large majority 
to Mr. Elder, after which the meeting dispersed. No 
comments on these facts are necessary ; it must be 
patent to the most sceptical that such an election was 
from every conceivable point of view valid and bind- 
ing. 

Secondly, could the election of Mr. Elder, granting 
its validity, be annulled ? This, gentlemen, is what Mr. 
Elder’s opponents call their strong point, but which I 
venture to term their stumbling-block. They invoke 
with great circumstance the Parliamentary procedure 
of Canada ; I do likewise. They tell us that a resolu- 
tion, or question, or motion, may be rescinded or recon- 
sidered. All this I grant, and more, for I am quite 
willing to waive the doubtful question of who have the 
power to propose reconsiderations of motions, ques- 
tions, or resolutions. There is no question here what- 
ever of motions, questions, or resolutions. Nomina- 
tions and elections are not made and carried in the 
form of motions or resolutions, and were not so wade 
and carried at the meeting of Nov. 10 th. Consequently, 
the mass of evidence drawn from Todd, Bourinot, and 
Cushing, and adduced by Mr. Elder’s opponents in 
support of the rescinding or reconsideration of motions, 
falls to the ground as entirely irrelevant. 

It is purely and simply a contested election case. 
Now, I in my turn shall apply parliamentary procedure 
to the case, but more to the point I trust than the gen- 
tleman aforementioned have done. The medical 
students, having no constitution or by-laws framed for 
their use in elections and other matters, must therefor 
rely, (as I pointed out above) on parliamentary proce- 
dure. What does this procedure say ? I quote from 
the “Controverted Elections Act of 1874,” (37 Viet. 
Cap. 10., Sec. 63) — “ All elect unis held of ter the pass - 
ing of this act shall he subjected to the provisions there- 
of , and shall not he questioned otherwise than in 
accordance therewith .” 

Now what are the objections that may be raised 
against the return of a candidate? The Act states 
“ corrupt practices ” during the election. Did any such 
exist at Mr. Elder’s election. Surely it will not be 
urged that an attempt to convince an individual that 
our candidate is preferable to another is a “ corrupt 
practice.” Otherwise one would have to admit that 
ninety-nine hundreths of the present commercial, 
municipal, and political elections are actually illegal. 
Again the Act does not include as a “ corrupt practice” 
that of being a member of a secret society at the time 
of election, and not even a fanatical clergy has suc- 
ceeded in persuading the people of Canada that such 
an offence is a sufficient cause of disqualification for 



election. On no legal grounds then could Mr. Elder’s 
election be annulled. 

To sum up — Mr. Elder’s was duly elected by a 
majority of students ; this election was binding unless 
foul means had been used to secure the election ; I 
have proved that no foul means were so made use of 
and consequently that Mr. Elder is at this moment 
just as much elected to the office of Chairman of the 
Annual Dinner as he was on Nov. 10th at 6 o’clock 
p.in. This, gentlemen, is the argument of the defence. 
I have stated the case as it appears to me after mature 
deliberation, and as dispassionately as possible, I have 
incriminated no one, I have not even attempted to 
defend a friend from virulent accusations and personal 
insults, but I have attempted to show that a crying in- 
justice has been done to him in duly electing him to 
an honourable position and then, in defiance of the 
rules which govern all civilized associations, degrading 
him from office without even allowing him the privilege 
of a voluntary resignation. To others who possess 
greater the rhetarical powers and a greater command 
of pathos I leave the task of expressing the scorn and 
contempt they feel for the doings of a certain clique 
who have shewn themselves ignorant not only of the 
most elementary forms of procedure but even of the 
commonest rules of courtesy and gentleman bearing. 

The chief object then of this communication is not 
so much to bring the blush of shame to the faces of 
the guilty parties, nor yet to attempt the redress of a 
grievance which is now past all remedy, but if possible 
to establish a precedent which shall in future preclude 
the possibility of occurrence of any dispute of a 
similar nature, which can have no other effect than 
that of causing much ill-feeling where a little 
consideration and less haste would bring about that 
harmony which should exist between individuals 
engaged in the same pursuits and living in a manner 
under our roof. In conclusion, gentlemen, supported 
as I am by authority of undoubted reliability I have 
no hesitation in subscribing myself, as every corres- 
pondent should, by my own name. 

Henri A. Lafleur. 



Editors McGill Gazette : — 

Sirs. — Permit me to take exception to a portion of 
your editorial remarks in last issue headed “ Mediceval 
Wisdom.” First, as to the action of the Faculty. The 
rule of submitting the questions for debate to the 
Faculty is not a new thing, and the undergraduates 
were reminded of its existence in the most courteous 
way possible, so that upon the necessary explanations 
being given, the society quietly acquiesed. The 
Faculty have a perfect right to a direct control over 
the proceedings of the Undergraduates Society when 
they both provide the hall in which its meetings are 
held, and are responsible for the general conduct of its 
members as students. A dictatorial mandate would 
undoubtedly have been highly offensive to the mem- 
bers, but the rule has been enforced in no such man- 
ner. Second, as to the action of the society. If sub- 
mitting to constituted authority be “ eating humble 
pie ” then we must admit the soft impeachment, but if 
the present flourishing condition of the society is due 
to the energetic policy pursued by the undergraduates 



14 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1884. 



(and I for one believe so), then it is fair to assume 
that the members considered themselves acting in the 
best interests of the society, and therefore their con- 
duct does not call for criticism. If “ there was a time 
when rather than to submit to a similar injunction a 
college society allowed itself to be driven from the 
walls of McGill ” then the wisdom of the step is open 
to question when we consider the present languishing 
condition of that society which is ironically termec. 
“University” Literary Society. No sensible man 
objects to candid criticism particularly, when, as in the 
present case, it emanates from a friendly source, and I 
am sure any advice which you, Messrs. Editors, have 
to offer will always be received with pleasure. But 
there are many, and I confess myself amongst the 
number, who object to dictation from those who are 
not pointing out any method of making the Under- 
graduates’ Society any more successful than it is at 
present, and who, content themselves with vague con- 
demnation without a full knowledge of the circum- 
stances. Li t the shoemaker stick to his last. When 
the Undergraduates’ Society undertakes to instruct the 
Editors of the Gazette, as to how they shall manage 
their paper, it will be time enough for the Gazette to 
expend its eloquence in teaching the undergraduates 
the value of 

Free Speech. 

McGill College, Dec. 9, 1884. 



Editors McGill Gazette : — 

Dear Sirs, — “ In this life we want nothing but 
Facts, sir, nothing but Facts.” Let me personate the 
character of that individual who in Dickens’ Hard 
Times , gave utterance to the above quotation, and 
upon the basis of facts alone, refute the slanderous 
statements made in } r our last issue regarding the 
“ unhappy differences ” between the Medicals. The 
action to unseat Mr. Elder was taken, not upon per- 
sonal grounds and only indirectly because he is a 
member of a Secret Society ; but it was taken exclu- 
sively upon the grounds stated by the mover of the 
re-consideration before the whole School , viz., that last 
year, before we were aware of the existence of this 
Society, its members, by pre-arranged plans, nomin- 
ated to positions on the Dinner Committee their own 
confreres , and such was the general good feeling, that 
those nominees were elected almost to a man without 
an election contest. Thus by apparent subterfuge, 
the Dinner was controlled by the members of this 
faction — in itself a foul blot upon the fellow-feeling 
that should exist between students — and I challenge 
anyone to find upon the Menu-card of last year the 
name of a student who was not, or is not, a member 
of this society. 

Thus it was that the majority of students feeling 
that there had been a gross usurpation of power, and 
no longer desiring to subscribe themselves as “ tools ” 
to a designing minority, unseated Mr. Eider, and 
elected one, who as we all know, fulfilled the duties 
of his position with credit to himself and the whole 
school. 

Veritas. 



Editors McGill Gazette : — 

Dear Sirs. — We have just seen how good a dinner 
the Medical Faculty can get up, in the face of the so- 
called split amongst the students. What are the Arts 
men going to do in the matter? The subject of class 
dinners has not yet been broached, as far as I know, 
and if the second Faculty dinner is to take place this 
year it is time we began to think about it. Last year’s 
was not a gigantic success, there being present about 
fifty students, not forty per cent, of the Arts Under- 
graduates. We ought to have a better one this session, 
and it would be a good idea to secure the co-operation 
of all the theological students, and thus make a rous- 
ing success of our dinner, 

Yours, 

Undergraduate. 



BUY YOUR 



Boots and Shoes, 

RUBBERS, OVERSHOES AND MOCASSINS 

AT 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

Shoe Stores, 

UPTOWN: QUEEN’S HALL BLOCK, 

1331 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 



1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 



JOHN HENDERSON & 00., 

rLhttersmdFurriers, 



28 3 ]tfcive 2e.me Street. 



FUR COATS, CAPS and GAUNTLETS, 

Extra Quality Goods at Lowest Cash Prices. 

Tlie « McGILL” IUbbon for Sale. 

gltc monavcli ^mpoviitm 

AND 

ARTISTIC GENTS FURNISHINGS STORE, 

130 »t. James Street, 

FINEST ASSORTMENT OF 

Scotch Wool Underwear, Hosiery, Ties, Gloves. Mufflers, Snow- 
shoes and Toboggan requisites always on hand. 
SHIRTS MADE TO ORDER-FIT GUARANTEED. 

Student bringing this Adv’t will Get 10 p. c. Disc. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



•^Central 3Dr-u.gr Stored 
We He CHAPMAN, 

Pharmaceutical Phemist, Eng., 

By Examination member of the Pharmaceutical Society 
of Great Britain. 

Licentiate of Quebec Pharmaceutical Association. 

THE DISPENSING OF PRESCRIPTIONS A SPECIALTY. 

Finest and Purest Drugs only used. 

COR. OR CRAIG &C BLETJRY STS. 



GEO. BROWN & SONS, 

jUjiri anfr Collar ffiamifatlaroro, 

21 BLEURY ST. 



For Groups go to 



PHOTOGRAPHY. 

For Cabinet Photos, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD’S. 
SUMMERHA YES & W ALFORD 'S. 

For Composition of Croups go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD'S. 

For all kinds of Photography go to 

SUMMERHA YES & W ALFORD ’S. 
SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleury Street. 



RJCHELJEU HiDIEL, 

I. B. DUROCHER, Proprietor. 

Jacques CartierSquare, opp. Court House & City Hall, 

MONTREAL. 

THE ABOYE HOTEL IS THE BEST IN THE CITY FOR Mc3llL COLLEGE DINNERS. 

RAADT & CO., 

St. Lawrence Ilall, 

And Queen’s Block, 1323 St Catherine St., 







Snow Shoe and Toboganing Suits, Tuques. Sashes, 
Stocking, &c., &c> 

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 

urgiral Unslrumfnls . 

A FULL STOCK CONSTANTLY ON HAND 

IMPORTED DIRECT 

— FROM THE — 

Leading Manufacturers of the World. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. 





384 ST. PAUL STREET. 



C. ASHFORD’S 

Cheap Book, Stationery. 

-A. IN' 3D 

FANCY GOODS SHOP, 

MEDICAL BOOKS, 

Students’ Note Books. Dissecting Cases & Scalpels, 

CBY WEISS &c SON,) 

CHEAP FOR CASE. 

Books procured to order from England & the United States. 

678L AND 680 DORCHESTER ST., * 

MONTREAL. 



Hat* Blesses and Wig lakes, 

1368 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 

WELLINGTON ARCADE, 
MOITTEEAL. 



Perfumery and Hair Goods kept in stock. Special attention 
LADIES CHAMPOOING and CHILDREN HAIR CUTTING. 



for 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 




Late of London, England, 



FuliniN! Tailor, 



31 BEAUER HALL. 



THE 

|Jurlai|<l ptlioorapliic (Vy., 

5 & 7 BLEURY STREET, 

General Engravers, Lithographers, 
Printers and Publishers. 

This establishment is the oldest in Canada and is the 
largest and most complete of its kind in the Dominion, having 
every facility for executing 

ALL KIND 8 



v-iC LARGE ASSORTMENT OF^ 



Scotch anil JjVench 




— .A. 1ST ID — 



Worsteds Constantly on Hand. 

Fifteen per cent, discount 
For Spot Cash. 

Removable (jollar^ anil (ijuffjS 

FOB. OVERCOATS, 

Made from the Primest Furs, 

Fit Better than sewed on 
AS HERETOFORE AND LOOK HANDSOME. 



Engraving and Fine Printing. 

NOTES, DRAFTS, CHEQUES, BILLS OF EXCHANGE 
and all classes of BANK WORK, finely executed on 
safety or other paper of the latest and 
most improved kinds. 



BILL HEADS, BUSINESS CARDS, NOTE & LETTER 
HEADINGS, ENVELOPES 

and every description of commercial form, 

By Lithography or Letter Press Printing. 

SHOW CAROS. GI.OSS I.ARKl.S, COTTON TIC- 
KETS, MAPS, CALENDARS, and JEVJERY SPECIES of 
COLOR PRINTING. 



PHOTO-LITHOGRAPHY, 

Reproductions rapidly and clearly made. 

Photo-Engraving, 

BOOKS, PLANS. PEN DRAWINGS and MAPS, repro- 
duced suitable for ORDINARY PRINTER'S USE. 

Un PROCESS, 

We are the only firm in Canada Really Engraving 
subjects by this process and can produce specimens of map 
work equal to the best work by U. S. artists. 



ELECTROTYPING and STEREOTYPING 

111 all their several brnnehes. 

Ball Programmes, Invitations, At Home and Visiting 
Cards, neatly and tastefully engraved and printed. 

SPECIAL DESIGNS MADE FOR 

Menu Pards, Prests, Monograms, Business pi E s, 
And all kinds of Paper, Envelopes and Cards 

Embossed and Illuminated. 



