
COIN TENTS. 



PAGE 



Editorials *5 

Death of Dr. Ross *5 

To the Students of the Donalda Department 16 

Longitude of Montreal *6 

Poetry — A Bit of Autumn Color 16 

*7 

The Tug of War 20 

Students at the Academy 17 

Students Volunteer Band of the Y.M.C.A 18 

Foot-Ball in the University 18 

History of Music in McGill 21 

Christopher Columbus <••••• 22 



PAGE 

McGill Song Book 23 

Societies 24 

Class Reports. . 25 

Science 25 

•Law . 25 

Arts 26 

Comp. Med 26 

Donalda 27 

Medicine 27 

My Report 29 

Personals 30 




PRINTED BY JOHN LOVELL & SON 23 AND 25 ST. NICHOLAS STREET. 

1892. 





Film AMEMCAIS 



In Oak, Rosewood, Mahogany and Cherry. 

“STEWART” “BAY STATE” and “DOBSON” 

— == ESja.pg'a-oo. 



Genuine Italian Mandolines. 

Best Russian Gut Strings and Everything in the 
Musical Line. 

GEORGE J. SHEPPARD, 

2274 and 2276 St. Catherine Street. 

N. B.— Special discount to Students. 



Montreal Photographic Supply. 

B. F. SMITH, 164 St. James St. 

SOLE AGENT FOR CANADA. SPECIAL BARGAINS. 

Carbutt’fl dry Plates and Filins. 1 6x7 Folding Kodak $57 60 

Gray’s Periscope Lenses. 14x6 “ “ 62 50 

Prosch Triplex Shutters. 1 4 x 5 Hawkey e Roll Holder etc. 26 00 

Prosch Flash Lamps. 1 No. 2 Kodak 25 00 

New York Aritso Paper. 1 C Daylight Kodak . .26 00 

Peerless Blue Paper. 1 A 11 “ 8 60 



High Quality. Low Prices. 

Surgical Instruments. 



References' by kind permission, The Medical ' Faculty 

J. IT. CHAPMAN, 

2294 St. Catherine Street, Corner of 
McGill College Avenue. 

Bell Telephone, 4390. JMbfltVedl. 



I 



I 



FUR LINED COATS, 

FUR CAPS 
AND GAUNTLETS. 

JOMMra&CO., 

W-ST.PAULST.,-457 

Montreal, Canada. 

BLACK BEAR, 
CRIZZLY BEAR. 
HUDSON’S BAY WOLF 

• i AND • . 

MUSK OX 
SLEIGH ROBES. 




I 



I 



IF-iLLIMIIEIR/S 

Hair Dressing Palace. 

THE LARGEST ASSORTMENT OF 

(Brushes, Combs , (Razors, Strops , 
Terfumery and Toilet 

Articles. 

1743 & 1745 NOTRE DAME STREET. 

4^ I keep a good boot, suitable for fall 
A 'W wear, and one that will last well 
and sell it to students for $3*00* 

C^XiX, T3ST ^lIsTID SZEIK IT- 

AT M. FEATHERSTON, 2243 St. Catherine. 

- - CORNER VICTORIA STREET, - - 

Suits for GYMNASIUM of FIELD. 

- Running Shoes, etc, 

ALBERT DEMERS, 

* 338 St. James Street, 

NEARLY OPPOSITE WITNESS OFFICE. 



WISE professional 
MEN 

BUY their DESKS 
and 
BOOK 
CASES 
from 

TEES & CO., 

300 St. James St., Montreal. 



flrlthow our Rates to 
Students are 
H Low, 

» We give them the best In 
W Portraits, 

Groups, etG. 

W. Notman & Son, 17 Blenry St 




^CGlbb FORTNIGHTby. 



Vol. i. MONTREAL, NOVEMBER io, 1892. No. 2 



^EDITORIAL BOARDS 

Gordon MacDougall, B.A. (Law ’94), Editor-in-chi e /’. 

W. M. MacKerachbr, (Arts *94). George F. Shaw (Med. *93). 

A. R. Holden, B.A. (Science *94). Mabel Lee (Donalda *93). 

Wilfred Plaskett (Comp. Med. *93). 



^BUSINESS BOARDS 



The McGill Fortnightly is published every second week during the 
College Session. 

Rejected Communications will not be returned, to which rule no exception 
( ,an be made. 

The name of the writer must always accompany a communication. 

Address Contributions to Editor-in-Chief, P.O. Box 37. 



eOlTORlALS. 



With this, the second issue of the Fortnightly, we 
are come to that part of our session when all the 
departments are in full swing, and we begin to feel 
the strain of our work. 

The need of occasional social relaxation will soon 
be felt ; and it should not be subdued by force only to 
recur with increased strength, but rather let us attend 
to it, and by satisfying it in moderation render our- 
selves more fit for our work and more capable of enjoy- 
ing it. 

Now is the time for a smoking concert or two, when 
our various Glee and Banjo Clubs may present their ex- 
cuses for existing ; and soon the snow will have ren- 
dered the roads suitable for our old-time enjoyable ex- 
cursions to the Athletic Club House. 

We do not, perhaps, realize that when we graduate, 
amongst all the cherished reminiscences that will keep 
our love for old McGill ever new, the dearest will be 
the remembrance of such evenings as hese ! On such 
occasions, when the good old songs are sung and many 
pranks are played, friendships are being formed whose 
memories will last as long as our lives. 

To allow Graduates and those who still remember 
their college days spent at the “ Varsity under the 
Hill” a cordial invitation is given to contribute to the 
columns of the Fortnightly. 

’ certainly no other University in the Dominion can 
boast such an ancient foundation, or such a large and 
influential roll of graduates as McGill- 

In East, West, North and South the red and white is 
recognized and recalled by men holding responsible posi- 



tions on Bench, Hospital ward, Council Chamber, in 
College Hall and Comtne rcial Corporation. 

A vigorous attempt is being made by the Editorial 
Board of the Fortnightly graguades of the University 
and others to get together a complete collection ot the 
back numbers of the University Gazette . The idea is 
to have these suitably bound and presented to the 
library in volume form, to serve as a record of the past 
and also as a means of reference for present students 
and those who interest themselves in the growth of 
journalism in the University. 

The scheme is, we hope, a feasible one, as such a col 
lection would certainly prove most generally interesting 
as well as instructive to those who are at present carry- 
ing on the work in McGill. 

No one can deny that a college is to a large extent 
judged by its college press, and this press will have a 
standard of excellence commensurate with the support 
it receives. Every class of Students therefore that forms 
an integral part of the University, that is benefited by 
its good name, owes a support to its press. 

Nothing truer, McGill. If every man would recog- 
nize this fact, and that each one personally owes this in- 
terest and support ourFoRTNlGHrTLY would thoroughly 
realize the ambitions of its promoters, and fill in a most 
satisfactory manner what is required of it. 



Death ot Dr ©eorge ¥{ozz 

On the eve of our going to press we have learned 
with sorrow of the death of Dr. George Ross, vice- Dean 
of the Medical Faculty of McGill. What this loss 
realy means to the Faculty and the students of 
med icine it is hard to estimate. Both as a man and 
a physician he stood in high estimation among 
the citizens as among his colleagues. Though 
not fifty years of age, he had won a reputation that 
was national in extent, and ranked him among the 
ablest of the many able men who have added lustre to 
the name of McGill’s Medical School. Born in 1845, 
he passed by rapid stages through the High School of 
Montreal, and the Faculty of Arts in McGill, graduat- 
ing finally in Medicine in 1866. His ability as a 
clinical teacher was most pronounced, and his judg- 
ment as a consulting physician was greatly reliedon by 
all his colleagues. In our next issue we shall refer at 
greater length to his life and work. 



H. M. Kinghorn, B.A. (Med. ’94), Chairman . 

E. J. MacIver (Arts ’93), Secretary . 

J. Featherston (Science *93). Peers Davidson, B.A. (Law ’93). 

F. A. Bottbrell (Donalda *95). Glen Campbell (Comp. Med. *93). 



1 6 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



%hz 0hair of "Pathology. 

The appointment of J. George Adami, M. A., M. D., 
Fellow of Jesus College, Cambridge, Eng., as professor 
of pathology in the Faculty of Medicine, will give a 
fresh impetus to this most important department of 
medical science. Professor Adami comes to us with a 
high record for pathological work in the great Cam- 
bridge school, and under his able direction pathology 
will be raised to its proper dignity in the curriculum. 
The many graduates of the McGill Medical Faculty 
in every quarter of the globe are ever watching the pro- 
gress of their old “ Alma Mater,” with full confidence 
in the wisdom of its council, and this new mark of 
advanced teaching will call forth congratulations, not 
only to the Faculty ot Medicine, but to the University 
as a whole. In a future issue we will give a brief 
sketch of the career of Dr. Adami. 



The editors of the Fortnightly wish to express 
their sincere thanks to Mrs. Clark Murray, who at some 
inconvenience to herself ha caused to be fitted up for 
their use a section of one of the rooms under her con- 
trol in the Fraser Institute. 



A personal or contribution, a word of encouragement 
or congratulation will be always most gladly welcomed 
as showing that the old university life is not forgotten 
and that the ties of college friendship and connection 
are amongst those least easily broken. 



%o fhe Zfudziqtz of the Donalda ‘Depart- 
ment. 

In the last number of the McGill Fortnightly 
there appeared an excellent paper on the importance 
of gymnastic training for men what has been there 
so admirably urged applies with still greater force to 
women . 

When girls are young they join with their brothers 
in many games, and nothing contributes more towards 
their healthy development ; but as time goes on they 
must gradually withdraw themselves from this active 
fun, even a good romp among themselves being looked 
upon as unbecoming. The gradual lengthening of the 
skirt and tightening of the dress make such exercise 
difficult if not impossible, and the girl soon finds that 
walking is now almost the only exercise within her 
reach, and one which is very difficult to keep up unless 
a special object demand it. The inevitable results 
lollow, the color leaves the cheek and the brightnes 
the eye ; headaches, the proof of indigestion, are too 
frequently present ; the muscles become soft and flabby 
for want of exercise, and the circulation is impaired. 
Under such condition the brain cannot be properly 
fitted to carry on the heavy mental work which forms 
such a large part of the occupation of this time of life. 

In providing for the higher education of women, 
McGill College has not neglected this important 



matter of physical improvement Few teachers are 
more thoroughly up in their subject than Miss Barn- 
jum in that of gymnastics for girls and women. To 
the thorough system which was the result of her 
brother’s long and enthusiastic study she has con- 
stantly been adding by visits to the gymnasiums of 
other large cities, and the greater part of last summer 
was spent by her at Chautauqua, where all the most 
modern methods ,were being brought forward and 
discussed. 

Whilst urging upon all Donaldas a regular attend- 
ance upon these classes, those for whom this is out of 
the question must also bear in mind that much may 
be done by themselves in their own homes. For in- 
stance — after hard reading, stand straight with the 
shoulders held down and back in an easy position, 
very slowly draw in the breath till the lungs are fully 
expanded, hold it thus a few seconds, and as slowly 
expel it, and much will be done to overcome the 
tendency to stooping so common among students. 

In her recent Delsarte Lectures in this city, Mrs. 
Bishop said : “ A good stretch of the entire frame is 
invaluable at examination time, and a yawn should 
never be suppressed ! ” Such advice, however, must be 
cautiously followed till the general public more fully 
appreciate the necessity of mens sa?ia in corpore sano . 

Mabel Norton Evans. 



"Longitude of ‘FEonl'peal. 

Observations for the determination of the longitude 
of Montreal by direct communication with Greenwich 
were made during the past summer, under the super- 
intendence of Prof. McLeod and Mr. H. H. Turner, 
Chief Assistant in the Royal Observatory. The cables 
of the Commercial Cable Co. and land lines of the C.P.R. 
Telegraph Co- were placed at the disposal of the 
University and the Astronomer Royal for the purposes 
of the work. Besides Greenwich and Montreal, the 
ends of the cable, Waterville, Ireland, and Canso, 
Nova Scotia, were occupied as Astronomical Stations, 
—thus, incidentally, the longtitude of these places will 
also be determined. 

The work was divided into four stages : In the first 
two, during April and May, Prof. McLeod observed 
on this side and Mr. Turner on the other. In the last 
two stages, during August and September, Mr. Turner 
was on this side and Prof. McLeod in England and 
Ireland. 

We understand that this is the first longtitude work 
in which the siphon recorder has been employed in 
receiving the time signals, and that very satisfactory 
results have been obtained. 

The work of the reduction of the observations is now 
actively in progress. 



A 13it ot Autumn Color. 

Centered upon a sloping crest I gazed 

As one enchanted. The horizon’s ring 
Of billowy mountain flushed with sunsetting 
Islanded me about aud held me mazed 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



1 7 



With beauty saturate. Never color blazed 
On any mortal palette that could fling, 

Such golden glamor over everything. 

As flushed from Autumn’s prisai ; till all was hazed, 
With opal, amber, sapphire, amethyst, 

That shimmered, mingled, dusked to steely blue. 
Ruptured I mused : Salvator never drew 

Its faintest semblance ; Turner’s pencil missed 
Such culmination ; yet we count them true 
Masters. Behold what God’s one touch can do ! 

Quevido Redivivus. 



1759 . 

No song of strife or vision dear to fame 
Hath aught more beautiful and bright 
Than rings from that September night 
When down the stream Wolfe’s little army came. 

And he sat in the midst, all weak and pale, 

A knot of officers around 
As hushed as autumn air — no sound 
Save whispers faint — so reads the tale. 

I cannot tell what dark imaginings 

Were sweeping through the hero’s soul ; 
Perchance he heard the battle-roll 
Of morn, the rush of the Destroyer’s wings. 

His heart, perchance, leapt weary leagues of sea, 
And breathed farewells to plighted bride, 

And prayed once more the ebbing tide 
Might bear him there unseen and silently. 

Yet turning, eyes and cheek aglow, he spake 
The words of an immortal strain, 

Revealing the secretest vein 
Of mood heroic no emprise could shake. 

“ * The paths of glory lead but to the grave ’ — 

And wreaths the poet’s brow entwine 
Shall live beyond the droop of mine, 

Though triumph mark me bravest of the brave . 

(< Yea, though ere dawning come I scale the height, 
Ere eve, yon crowning citadel, 

To me less dear the pulse and swell 
Of Empire’s vast acclaim, so might I write.” 

His shaft of stone looks silent to the stars, 

And near it, scarce a mile away, 

The midnight heaves a dim, low mound of gray, 
That oft beat back the surging wave of wars. 



Beneath the hill the belt of river runs ; 

Its flood with bars of radiance set 
Is gleaming like a jewelled coronet, 
Encircling his fair name through all the suns. 



His shaft of stone looks silent to the stars, 

And near it, scarce a mile away, 

Beyond the moat, beyond the mound of gray, 
His splendid foe lies dead with glory’s scars. 

Chas. E. Moyse. 



Montreal- 



Students at the Seademp. 

“ Of course they were noisy and wouldn’t keep still, 
And oft interrupted the play 
With a ‘What’s the matter with Old McGill ?’ 

And a deafening 'Hip ! hip ! hurrah!’ 



Of course they were scarcely quite up to the mark, 
But what, in good faith, was the odds ? 

We knew they were students and out on a lark, 
And we bore with the boys in the gods. 

“And the music was— well, I’ll admit that the 

score 

Wasn’t writ for a classical ear, 

And the words were ‘We’ll Never Get Drunk Any 

More,’ 

And ‘ The Son of a Gambolier ;’ 

But we listened with manly delight to each song, 
And we answered with hearty applauds, 

For their voices in unison true were and strong 
As the hearts of the boys in the gods.” 

That was written for a former Students’ Night. But 
it applies very well to last Friday, with one exception : 
the play was not interrupted, and there was not noise 
except at the proper time. The order was exemplary. 
It seemed to be understood that such a splendid turn- 
out and such a delightful opera were not to be marred 
by bad conduct. While the play was in progress we 
were content to enjoy it. In place of college studies 
and contact with the topics of the day, we were intro- 
duced for a while to a time when nature and men were 
young, to the light-hearted mirth of merry England 
and the glades of Sherwood Forest, to 
“The life that is free from strife, 

Where friends are stanch and true. ” 

We joined Robin Hood and his band, 

“Friar Tuck with quarterstaff and cowl, 

Maid Marian, fair as ivory bone, 

Scarlet and Mutch and Little John.’’ 



The whole affair was an unprecedented success, 
thanks to the Committee, which was composed of the 
following gentlemen : R. B Hutchinson, H. M. Smith, 
F. M. Becket, R. A. Gunn, E. E. Howard, and O. 
Smith. 

At seven o’clock the men were marshalled in ranks 
according to classes, and moved in order from the Col- 
lege, headed by a corps of buglers from the Royal 
Scots. Small boys scampered and yelled in the rear, 
stout men stood upon front door-steps, and ladies 
looked out from upper windows. One professor was 
seen to draw aside the curtain and look forth with com- 
plaisance upon men who could speak both languages 
and appreciate the plays of Moli£re. 

We entered the theatre Jwithout a^crush, and the 
gallery, which seats eight hundred, was fairly filled 
before the door was opened to the public. At 7.30 
there was not standing room, and when the play com- 
menced there was not a vacant seat in the whole house. 
After we were seated, the first few minutes were occu- 
pied with reiterations of the college yell, the blowing 
of horns, and the saluting of banners. Then com- 
menced the programme, which was continued between 
the acts. After “The Son of a Gambolier,’’ which 
aroused the student temper and made us all feel at home, 
we were favored with a harmonica solo by Mr. Wm. 
Robertson of the Scots, followed by some spirited 
selections from the bugle band. At another stage of 



i8 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



the programme, Mr. A. Duclos sang “ The Torpedo and 
the Whale”; Mr. C. N. Harwood “ Listen to my Tale 
of Woe Messrs. Bond. Askwith, Barns, and Howard, 
‘ Kingdom Coming Mr. A. R. Holden, B. A., 
“Alouette.” Besides the choruses of these, other 
songs were sung in concert, all with great volume and 
correctness Mr.Holden acted as leader and Mr. Nevil 
Evans presided at the piano. 

The events of greatest interest to the boys were 
enacted in the second act . “ Will Scarlet ” added for 
the occasion some verses to his Tailor Song, which were 
enthusiastically applauded and elicited a recall and 
trhee cheers for Mr. Pearson. Miss Hamilton appeared 
in cap and gown. This was no anachronism ; for had 
the present McGill existed in that early day, such a 
Maid Marian would decidedly have been a Donalda. 
(This is intended as a compliment to Miss Hamilton, 
not to the ladies.) Mr. Mostyn was presented with a 
box of choice cigars. Burton and Spenser both speak 
of tobacco as “divine,” and Lord Lytton considered it 
a consolation sent from heaven. In this case, at any 
rate, the gift was wired direct from the gods. Soon 
after, the Sheriff of Nottingham appeared, smoking a 
cigar. Nor was this an anachronism ; for, had Mr. 
Mostyn been sheriff of Nottingham, his eagle eye 
would have discovered tobacco, and the soothing cigar 
would have been manufactured to keep his immense 
brain in good working order. The next gift of the gods 
was a more splendid one. It was a magnificent basket 
of roses for the prima donna. For some minutes the 
students cheered, while Miss Hamilton bowed and the 
audience below clapped their hands. 

The opera was heartily enjoyed by all, and not least 
by the actors themselves, who paid many compliments 
to the students and wore bows of the College ribbon. 
The students remained seated until the drop of the cur- 
tain, then rose and sang “God Save the Queen.” 

After the play Miss Hamilton was drawn home to the 
Windsor, and, a speech being demanded, she gracefully 
thanked the students for their ovation. They then 
took their way to the professors’ houses- Professor 
Nicholson gave them a warm reception which worked 
up for him an enthusiastic response- Professor Moyse, 
in appearing, made a short speech, in the name of the 
professors, thanking the students for the box, and read 
the lines which are appended. He was lustily cheered, 
and to the tune of the old song, by voices now too 
hoarse for melody, he was proclaimed to be a jolly good 
fellow- 

SO LONG AS BRAIN AND HEART HAVE FACUI/flES. 

— Sbaks. Sonn. 

The immortal Sliakspere in his classic page 
Has somewhere said that all the world’s a stage 
On which we, mortals, play our varied parts 
In seeking riches or in winning hearts. 

And though his hand could delicately draw 
Skilled Portia, pleading in a court of law, 

Hortensio, in figures ail adept, 

Wherein nor stmts nor strains as yet had crept, 

Sage Holofernes with a pedant’s frown 
Correcting barbarous use of Latin noun— 

Yet had the poet lived in later days 



And roamed observant through Mount Royal’s ways ! 
One actor new had moved his love and skill 
The meek long-suffering student of McGill ! 

One scene had shone mid all his others fair 
The playhouse when McGill has mustered there. 



Tin Impromptu ©oneort. 

On Saturday morning the Arts and Science Buildings 
were honored by a visit from two fair guests, Mrs. 
Hamilton and Miss Dickerson of the Robin Hood 
Opera Company. They were very appreciative of all 
that was shewn them, taking particular interest in the 
“dear boys” at work in the workshops, who received 
them with repeated cheers and songs of welcome, and 
of whose workmanship they carried away some beauti- 
ful samples. But the best was yet to come. 

When the visiting party reached the Glee Club room 
in the Technical Building, the piano naturally attract- 
ed the two ladies ; and more naturally their beautiful 
songs immediately drew all the students in the building 
to their side, anxious to hear more. Mrs. Hamilton’s 
artistic rendering of “ Last Night ” will not be soon for- 
gotten by those who were fortunate enough to be pre- 
sent, and the other songs were all thoroughly enjoyed. 
With an ovation after the concert and an enthusiastic 
send off at the main entrance, the students reluctantly 
permitted the ladies to depart. 



Ztudenfz "Oolunfeep Band of the TJtn.S.Si. 

A series of very helpful and earnest meetings is 
being held on Saturdays, from 2 to 3 o’clock, when the 
members of the Student Volunteer Band of the 
Y.W C.A. come together for study and prayer. Mr. J. 
Campbell White’s “Lessons on the Bibles and Mis- 
sions, Stalker’s “ Life of Christ,” and, on each alternate 
Saturday, the life of Joseph Hardy Nusium, are the 
subjects at present being studied at these meetings. 



Boot -Ball in the ‘Unroersif^. 

Although the championship season has not y et come 
to a close, and little songs of triumph and hearty hand- 
shakes of congratulation cannot as yet be indulged in, 
still, a rough estimate of the seasou’s work of our Foot- 
Ball Club can be presented and a careful forecast be 
made of possible and probable results. 

A favorite and general statement is usually heard 
on all sides at the beginning of each season, from both 
player and non-combatant, that McGill has the “ stuff” 
for any number of championship teams, and every year 
in the past a certain amount of the above mentioned 
superlative material has turned out for the only too 

short season which ensued, to carry old McGill to the 
front. 

More than ever has this been the case during the 
season of 1892, and the captains of the various teams 
and the general committee of management have cer- 
tainly worked harder and in a more unselfish manner 
than ever before to accomplish this result. 

The formation of three teams comprising fifty men, 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



19 



including reserves, and the keeping in condition of 
those men during a season of barely five weeks, pre- 
sents difficulties which can only be properly appre- 
ciated by those who have ever seriously undertaken 
the task. Add to this the facts of there being only 
one campus tor the practising of all these men, and the 
conflietion in the hours set for lectures in the different 
faculties, and the problem becomes still more serious 
and difficult to solve. 

Again, if the schedule of games in the thre cham- 
pionship series, as published in our last issue, be con- 
sulted, it will be found that on Oct. 15th McGill had 
Senior, Intermediate and Junior teams playing in 
championship matches; on Oct. 25th both Senior and 
Intermediate; and on Nov. 5U1, the whole three were 
again scheduled to play. 

These teams must be picked, practised, aud, what is 
more, practised as teams and against one another. 
Monday and Friday of each week must be considered 
as “off” days. Lectures in Science and Medicine are 
continued until 5 o’clock, and in Law until six every 
day and thus the problem becomes almost as difficult to 
solve as the famous “ squaring of the circle.” 

As for days for “general practice” in order to 
develop new men, and other most promising material 
this is almost impossible though most necessary, as the 
percentage of good men who have already obtained 
places on one team or another but are obliged for various 
reasons to drop from the ranks, is large, and their 
positions have to be continually refilled. 

Again, men of recognized football ability and stand- 
ing, of their own accord, or compelled by circumstances, 
often defer practice until the various teams are formed, 
and even played together in championship matches. 
Then they make their appearance ; a rearrangement of 
teams becomes necessary, and the management are 
thrown into a state of confusion which may continue 
during a whole season. 

As soon, however, as the .season opened, the committee 
of management got to work. Every Monday night 
was set aside for committee meetings. Schedules of 
the various matches to be played by the different teams 
were issued ; hours for practice were published, and 
everything was done that could be done in the way of 
internal management by an efficient committee to for- 
ward football and the interests of football enthusiasts 
University. 

General practices were established in order to enable 
the captains of the different teams an opportunity of 
forming Qn idea of the material which presented itself. 
Gradually the men sifted out, a veritable survival of the 
fittest, and the captains had at their disposal as fine a 
half century of football players as had ever donned 
the white jersey in the old days. 

Following is a short account of matches played in 
the three series. On Oct. 8th, McGill met Montreal 
for the first time in the senior series on the College 

campus. 



At 3.25 the teams lined out as follows : — 



McGill. 




Britannia. 


Donohue 




.... D. C. S. Miller. 


Goulet 


C ) 


J. Miller. 


Gaudet 


< Half hacks. 




Mathewson 


1 f 


.. .Drummond. 


Jacques 




Waud. 


Rankin 


( ) 


. W. L- Jamieson. 


Primrose 


Wings. j 




Turner 


... ,H. Montserat. 


MacDougall 




V. Buchanan. 


(Captain). 




(Captain). 


Guthrie 


1 • 
1 • 




Dunlop 


Black. 


White 

Lewis | 


Forwards 




McFarlane 


1 




Barclay 


J • 





Touch umpires — Messrs. K. D. Young and Al. 
Mitchell. 



The weather was all that could be desired. 

The game on the whole was fast, the scrimmage 
showed lack of practice in taking their formation, and 
the wings also were uncertain in blocking tactics. The 
backs as a whole played steadily. Donahue being 
specially good at full. Montreal won by a score of 
1 1 -7; a goal, touch and 1 rouge — to a try and three 
rouges for McGill. 



The second match in the Senior Series was played 
on October 15th, against Britannia, and our own 
grounds. 

Teams lined up as follows : — 

McGill . Britt a n n ia . 



Donahue.... 

Gaudet 

Goulet 

Mathewson. 

Jacques 

Macdougall 

Rankin 

Primrose ... 

Macfarlane. 

Whyte 

Johnson 

Barclay 

Dunlop 

Tetreau . 
Guthrie 



back. 



| Half backs 



quarter. 

(captL 



► Wings. 



Forwards. 



..Tovey. 

) ...A. F. Ross. 

>■ J. Ross. 

) Hill 

Stevenson (capt). 

( Corbett. 

j Prevost. 

j ......Patterson. 

( Smith. 

f Lowe. 

\ Cameron. 

\ ...Sa undersoil. 

( Crathern. 

( Brown. 

I Grace 



Referee — Mr. Percv Barton. 

- * 

This was one of the hardest fought matches of the 
season. Britannia won by a score of 8-5. 

A touch, 2 rouges and a safety to a goal from the 
field and a touch in goal. 

Penally, at long last, on the 29th of October came 
the triumph looked for, and expected b) the supporters 
of the red and white. Hard team practice was indulged 
in for our final match with Montreal, and the team 
which lined up against Montreal (who had in the 
meantime won on points the honor of representing 
the Province against Ontario), was the strongest put 
forward by the University. Montreal has practically 
the same team as before. 



It was a little after 3 when the referee, Mr. Alexander 



20 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Murphy of the Britannias, blew his whistle, and the 
two teams faced each other as follows : — 



J. Miller 


[Montreal goal.] 
D. C. S. Miller. 
Maile 


W. Hagar 


Baird 


Wand 


Monsarrat 


W. Jamieson 




Buchanan 


James 


Higginson Black 


Bell 


Guthrie 


Reford Routh 

O 

Yates Dunlop 


Barclay 


MacDougall (Capt) 


McFarlane 


Primrose 




Rankin 


White 


Jaques 


Tetreau 


Gaudet 


Matliewson 


Donahue 




Brunnelle 
[McGill goal] 





Montreal won the toss and elected to play with the 
wind. 



The weather being very unpropitious. two halves of 
thirty minutes each were decided on. 

The play in the first half was slightly in Montreal’s 
favor. 

In the second half McGill woke up, and a repetition 
of the old time rushes brought victory to the banners 
of old McGill. 

The scrimmage worked as one man. Thejwings were 
always in the right place, and the backs did some very 
cool and effective kicking. 

Mathewson secured a very pretty goal from the 
field. The score at the close stood 7-3 in our favor. 



The second team have during the entire season 
worked with an aim and perseverance, which has finally 
carried them to the position of virtual champions of 
Quebec. Their captain, Lome Drunnn, cannot be com- 
mended too highly for the able way in which he has 
managed his whole team, nor the team itself for the 
splendid support given him. 

Their first match was against Montreal. Down went 
the red and black by a score of 12-4. 

Then came Lennoxville’s turn, score 48-2. 

Finally the Britannias were defeated by 15-1. 

Following are the t.eams in this final match : — 



Britannia. 


Position. 


McGill. 


Prowane 






Rankin. 


Half-backs 




Saunderson.... 


( ( 




Gordon 


4 4 




Linton . 






Buntin 






Ayer 


It 




Garvin 


4 4 


Angus 


Brown 


4< 




Barry 




Walker 


McCombe 


(4 




McRobie 


U 


Tees 


Carter 


4 4 




McIntosh 


4 4 




Stevenson 


4 4 





Last Saturday the team travelled to Quebec, but ow- 
ing to an unfortunate series of accidents the match was 
not played. 

The match has been ordered to be played over by 
the Union. 

Standing of different clubs in the intermediate series 

Win. Lose. To play. 

McGill 3 0 1 

Montreal 2 1 

Britannias 0 3 1 

Quebec 3 0 1 

The third team have beaten Montreal by a score of 
21-0, and have themselves fallen victims in turn to 
Britannia by a score of 4-2. 

There yet remain two matches to be played in the 
Junior Series, and McGill must have them both. 

Not such a bad season, O foot-ball enthusiasts, and 
we shall continue to do better- 

%hz Uug of Wlcit. 

A BALLAD OF THE CLEAT, 1892. 

(Parodied on the “ REVENGE.”) 

On the campus, like a grampus when he sights a hostile whale> 
Stood the Arts team, anxious, fearing lest its ancient strength 
should fail ; 

« We’re to pull with Science first ! and we know they’re not the 
worst ! ” 

Then out spake John Robert Dobson : “ We’ve the biggest of all 
jobs on ! 

But we’ll do it, never fear ; they’ve not tried it till this year ; 
Half their fellows are untrained, and we know that we have 
gained 

On the prowess and the strength for which we were distinguish- 
ed erst.” 

******** 

He had over a hundred students to congratulate him then, 

And he went and got his dinner ere he came to pull again 
With his six strong Theologians who gazed grimly on the foe. 
There was courage in his eye : 
c 1 We will pull for life, and so 
Gain the victory or die. 

There’ll be little of us left by the time we pull the Vet. 

But we’ll pull these Veteriuarils ; if the wind of fortune varies, 
Here’s the rope that hauls the sail, we w T ill catch what we can get 
•##***** 

And the teams sat down, and the shot rang out all over the 
crowded field, 

And his men got three-fourths of an inch in the drop, but no 
more would the enemy yield ; 

Strain after strain, two minutes long, they clung to the rope in 
toil ; 

Strain after strain, two minutes long, as’twere each man’s mortal 
coil ; 

Strain after straiu, two minutes long, like the roots of the oak 
to the soil ; 

And some were fagged, and some were rattled, and some couldn’t 
pull any more — 

Books of minutes, were ever two minutes like this at McGill 
before ? 

For he said “ Pull on ! Pull on ! ” 

Though his chances were all but a wreck : 

And it chanced that, w T hen half of the minutes tw’ain was gone. 
By one great haul he determined to give them a check, 
And they took in enough to win of the fatal thread, 

And he himself bounded along as if he w^ere out of his head, 

And he said, “ Hold on ! hold on ! ” 

Cap’n. Goun. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



21 



History of Music in McGill. 

Although music has not yet obtained a permanent 
footing in McGill, many efforts have been made from 
time to time to cultivate musical taste among the stu- 
dents, and to improve college singing. As far back as 
i860, a philharmonic society was organized, and a pro- 
fessor of music appointed as conductor, but misunder- 
standings arose, and unfortunately the society was short 
lived. The conductor wanted his daughters to assist 
at the practices, the authorities objected, eventually the 
society died out. The next serious attempt to introduce 
music officially into the University was in connection 
with the “Founders Festival” — James McGill was 
born 6th October, 1744, hence 6th October is called 
Founders Day, and used to be celebrated by a Conver- 
sazione or Festival, usually in the month of November, 
to which the friends of the University and prominent 
citizens were invited. When the Military were sta- 
tioned in the city, “Founders’ Festival ” was always 
one of the great social events of the season — the officers 
took an active part in decorating the Wm. Molson Hall 
and corridors with evergreens and bunting. A military 
band played throughout the evening, and the elite of 
the city joined with professors and students to do honor 
to the memory of the illustrious founder. From 1865 
to 1869, the students met at the house of Mr. Bayne, 
Registrar of the University, to rehearse college songs 
and choruses. The following are the programmes of 
two “ Founders Festivals.” 

November 29th, 1866 

Wedding March — (Mendelssohn) — Band 25th K.O.B. 

Address— (B. Chamberlain, M.A., B.C.L.)— The Chairman. 

Chorus — “ Alma Mater Students- 

Overture — ‘ Italiana in Algieri ” — Band. 

Address — “ The Vice-Chancellor.” 

Oboe Solo— Cavitina from Nornin (“Rossini ”)— Sig. Barri- 

celli. 

Valse— La Mazurka (Godfrey)— Band. 

Reading— John Andrew, Esq. 

Chorus— “ Trancidillo ’’—Students. 

Selection— From “Traviata” (Verdi)— Band. 

Address— On behalf of the University Society. 

Duet — Euphonia and Cornet (Doninzetti)— Band. 

Reading— John Andrew, Esq. 

Oboe Solo— Cavot from Lucretia Borgia (Bellini)— Sig. 

Barricelli. 

Address— On behalf of the Undergraduates. 

Air — from “ Rigoletto ” (Verdi)— Band. 

Chorus— “ Gaudeamus Students- 

Valse— <f Farewell ” (Relle)— Band 

God Save the Queen— Band. 

Mr. F. H- Torrington, Pianist. 



27th November, 186S. 

Overture— L’ltaliana in Algieri (Rossini)— Band 6oth Rifles. 
Adress— On behalf of University Society. 

Chorus — “ Gaudeamus ” — Students. 

Song— “ McAppau,” Martha (Flotow)— Mr. C.J. Geddes. 
Selection— Le Pre aux clercs (Herold)— Band. 

Song— The Day is done (Balfe) — A Lady Amateur. 

Address -On behalf of the Students. 

Song— “ Vi Ravoiso,” Somnambula (Bellini)— Mr. Reid Tay- 
lor. 

Aria— (Beyson)— Clarionet Solo. 

Song— The Village Blacksmith ” (Weiss)— Mr. C.J. Geddes. 
Selection— u Martha ” (Flotow)— Band. 

Song— “The Menage” (Blumenthal)— Lady Amateur. 



Variations — iC Mary of Argyle ’’—Cornet Solo. 

Song — “ Hearts of Oak ” (Boyce) — Mr. Reid Taylor. 
Chorus — Students. 

VMse— “ Die Weiber,” (Lanuer)— Band. 

Vivat Regina ! 

Mr. F. H. Torrington, Pianist. 



In 1871-72, Dr. Harrington, an enthusiastic lover of 
music, and a lecturer in the University (then a bachelor, 
and ltving on Beaver Hall Hill), had the practice 
meetings at his own house, and acted as accompanist 
himself. In 1872, the Founders Festival music differed 
from that of previous years by the absence of students, 
songs and choruses, and instead, the prominence of 
solos. Professor Armstrong, who had recently come 
from England to join the Department of Applied 
Science, as professor of Civil and Mechanical Engineer- 
ing, had a fine baritone voice, and contributed much to 
hat year’s entertainment. 

The programme on that occasion was as follows : — 

26th January, 1872. 

Overture— “ Zampa ” (Herold) — Gruenwald’s Orchestra. 

Song— “ Quando ate lieta ” (Gounod) — Mr. Kedslie. 

Quadrille — “ Fest ” (Jos. Strauss) — Orchestra. 

Song— “Notte a Giorno ” (Mozart) — Prof. Armstrong. 

Medley of Sco ch Airs — Orchestra. 

Song — “ Merry Birds ” (Gumbert)— Mr. Brailey. 

Overture — “ Taucredi ” (Rossini) — Orchestra. 

Duet — “ Crudel Perche ” (Mozart) — Mr. Kedslie and Prof. 

Armstrong. 

Valse — “ Minee Kinder ” (Jos. Strauss) — Orchestra. 

Song — ‘‘Nightingale’s Trill ” (Gouz) — Mr. Brailey. 

Selection from “ La Gazza Cadra ” (Rossini)— Orchestra. 

vSong — “ Will he Come?” (Sullivan) — Prof. Armstrong. 

God Save the Queen. 

Dr. Harrington, Piatiist . 



In 1876, a University Glee Club was organized, the 
officers being : President, Dr. Harrington ; Secretary, 
Mr. A. Taylor ; Conductor, Mr. E- Houghton. A public 
concert was given in the Wm. Molson Hall, and the 
following year another was given in aid of the Montreal 
General Hospital ; of the latter, the following was the 
programme : — 

31th February, 1877. 

Part I. 

Overture— Organ and Piano “ A night in Grenada ” (Kreutzar) 
—Dr. C. F. Davies and Mr. Houghton. 
Carol — “ The first Nowell ” (Traditional) — Glee Club. 

Flute Solo — “ Fantaisie sur un air National Russe ” (Heine- 
meyer)— Mr. Quinones— A Student. 
Glee — “ Hark the Lark ” (Dr. Cooke) — Glee Club. 

Piano Solo — Andante Sonata, G major, opus 14 (Beethoven) 

— Mr. Houghton, 

Carol— “ Good King Wencestas ” (Traditional)— Glee Club. 
Sextette — c< The Cloud Capt. Towers,” Stevens— Glee Club. 
Part II. 

Carol — “ The Boar’s Head ” (Traditional)— Glee Club. 

Duet— Organ and Piano, “ Taucredi Dr. Davies and Mr. 

Houghton, 

Quartette — “ Integer Vetae ” (Fleming) — Glee Club. 
Chorus— from “ Lily of Killarney ” (Benedict) — Glee Club. 
Piano Solo— “ Tarantelle ” (Heller)— Mr. Houghton. 

Carol— “ The Manger Throne” (Dr. Steggat)— Glee Club. 
Glee — “ King Arthur’’ (Old English) — Glee Club. 

God Save the Queen. 

(To be Contin.due) 



G. F. S. 



22 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



Srisfopher Solumbus. 

There seems in nature a sort of fatality of events, or 
rather a law for their unfolding, which transcends 
human power, and makes men agents rather than 
asserters of their own will. The western world was, 
for ages, stretching its green shores to the sea, and 
yearning to hold communion with civilized man. 
When the old world was growing full, and the ener- 
gies of the nations became cramped and dwarfed, a 
new world opened before them, with fertile fields, 
inexhaustible mineral treasures, and a broad and 
boundless empire for the development of their energies 
when once conquered by the hand of industry. Col- 
umbus is the representative of an idea, and stands forth 
in the catalogue of the world’s worthies as the leader of 
a great army of intellectual and industrial forces. The 
story of his life, therefore, is an idle pastime for a 
vacant hour, but a study of one of the phases of the 
human mind, and one of the most important eras in 
the history of civilization. It is, therefore, with pleasure 
that we call to mind the beautiful and artistic bio- 
graphy by Horace St. John, and testify to its merit and 
utility. In simple eloquence, and with a power less 
apparent than felt, does he recount the adventures of 
this prince of men, describing, with graphic beauty, 
his early wanderings, his first conception of the grand 
idea of opening a new world beyond the bourne of 
waters, his applications to the European courts for 
assistance in the enterprise, their refusal and his 
embitterment, his numerous trials and sufferings, 
begging for bread, and wandering from court to court, 
neglected and despised, offering to the princes of 
Christendom an empire more rich than the gold 
bearing streams of Lydia. Until at last, with nearly 
sixty years of sorrow heaped upon him, but with an 
indestructible purpose living fresh in his heart, he 
sailed from Palos, on Friday, the 3rd of August, 1492, 
under the flag of Ferdinand and his queen, to explore 
the unknown regions of the West. 

Away, away ; their hearts flushed by hope, and 
their eyes kindled in the expectancy of beholding the 
new land. Strange birds winged around them ; strange 
fishes floated on the deep, and miles and miles of sea- 
weed ; then golden islands, storms, boisterous waves, 
and again a dead calm. There is a cry of land . it is 
the illusion of a cloud ; and they push on again, and 
hope fills their sails. Dangers and disappointments 
thicken ; the new land is not yet found ; they are 
away from home, on seas where never sailed a ship 
before, and discontent, followed by threats of mutiny, 
are heard upon the ships. 

Columbus feeds on his idea, and his heart is still 
strong ; the great man may be known by his power. 
Columbus awes them into submission, and away they 
sail again. At last, when they seemed sailing to a 
haven of death, and the dreary sea stretched all around 
them, without a sign of land, new weeds floated by ; a 
branch of thorn with berries on it, a reed, a carved 
staff; and they went on gaily, thanking God for his 
goodness during the stormy and the tranquil waters ; 



and with joyful hearts sang the “Vesper hymn.” 
The day closed, the sun set, and night fell. Columbus, 
from the lofty poop, stretched his gaze towards the 
horizon, now growing dim in the thickening light. 

A glimmer, as of a distant beacon, seemed to shine 
in the West ; he called one of his company, asking him, 
“If he saw a light in that direction?” He said 
‘ Yes.” Morning brought the blessed fulfillment. A 
gun fired from the “Pinla ” carried on the flash the con- 
firmation of their hopes, the intelligence that land was 
seen. The contrast between summer and winter is not 
greater than that of the verdant, fresh and fruitful 
shores, first revealed to the view of Columbus, with 
the populous, city studded coasts now marked with 
the thousand features of a ripening civilization. On 
Friday, October 12th, 1492, early in the morning, 

Columbus saw the new world. A level green shore 
spread before him, covered with trees, luxuriantly ver- 
dant, and beautiful beyond fancy. Numbers of wild men 
issued from the woods to gaze upon the white-winged 
monsters of the sea. So was tlie new world won, after 
many toils and trials, and Columbus, the hero of this 
greatest of discoveries, rewarded more sweetly with 
satisfaction of heart than by any of the emoluments 
attendant on commercial enterprise. 

I11 simple yet artistic narrative does Mr. St. John 
give us a well digested and carefully arrayed bio- 
graphy, which evinces, in its composition, an attention 
to traditions, journals, and old Spanish chronicles, which 
is not only honorable to himself, as an author, but 
corrective of many of the errors which have crept into 
the works of other biographers. Washington Irving, 
in his admirable work on the same subject, fixes the 
age of Columbus, when he first made terms with Fer- 
dinand, at fifty-six ; but Mr. St. John with great dis- 
cernment cites a letter, by Columbus, to the King, 
dated 1501, in which he states he had been forty years 
at sea, and began his mariner’s life at the age of four- 
teen, thus reducing, by a year, Irving’s statement, 
and, at the same time, establishing the date of his 
birth at 1447. Such things are of importance ; and it is 
well to note the minuteness of Mr. St. John’s facts 
and his caution on all questions which still remain 
doubtful. 

After various voyages to and fro, between Europe 
and the new hemisphere he had called into being, after 
the establishment of settlements, perils and hardships 
innumerable in the negotiations with the savages, and 
the harassing anxieties of commanding a dissipated 
band of desperadoes, he was alternately stripped of his 
honors and cast into prison under false charges of 
treason, and again released, and made the recipient of 
kingly and popular approbation ; until at last, wearied 
of a life which had been chequered with innumerable 
wrongs, having bequeathed to Europe a blessing 
broader than it could appreciate, he sank into the 
same beggary which he knew in early life, and died 
broken in spirit, yet filled with piety and generosity of 
heart. / 

The summary of his character exhibits the portrait 
of a man equal only to a grand achievement ; and 



McGill fortnightly. 



23 



wholly unfitted for the meannesses, the petty jealousies, 
and the soul-chilling conventionalities of commercial 
cities. Boldness in the conception of an idea ; courage 
in project ; soaring thought and energy in action ; 
charity, piety and humanity ; justice, magnanimity, 
aud unquailing bravery : these were some of the men- 
tal and moral qualities of Christopher Columbus. He 
was grand in the plan of his enterprises ; unwearied in 
their prosecution. He was dignified in power ; merci- 
ful in conquest ; vigorous in conflict ; benign to the weak 
and poor ; magnanimous in suffering ; religious and 
patient in distress ; grateful to those served ; he bore 
no malice toward those who wronged him. Toward 
the King only, who treated him with an ingratitude so 
base, was he ever bitter in the utterance of reproach ; 
and, if some of his actions in the new world appear of 
equivocal humanity and equity, we must not, in 
judging of them, apply the standard of our own civiliz- 
ation to measure the conduct of a conqueror in the 
fifteenth century. 

Try the actions of Columbus by the test of the times 
in which he lived, and it will be seen that, so far from 
being a cruel, an avaricious, or meati-souled man, he 
was pre-eminent among a barbarous people, in bar- 
barous times, for his human and generous character. 

For the enlightenment of the simple souls who believe in 
Friday being an unlucky day, it may be well to note, that 
Columbus sailed from Palos on a Friday, and on the same day 
of the week, just 10 weeks thereafter, he first saw land. 

H. M. 

A Life of Christopher Columbus, by Horace St. 

John. 

Life and Voyages of Christopher Columbus, by 
Washington Irving. 

Life of Columbus, by Arthur Helps. 



UBe&ill Z ong 13ook. 

Those of us who were here last year will remember 
that a committee was appointed to revise, if necessary 
remodel, and issue a new edition of the McGill Song 
Book. For some time it had been patent that the book 
we had — while a great stride in advance from the little 
“ Students’ Hand-book,” which some of the older gra- 
duates will recall with a smile— was sadly below the 
needs of the present day ; that beyond one or two scat- 
tered pieces, and the interest that always centres around 
the memory of a certain number of time-honored College 
ditties, there was nothing to raise it above the level of 
mediocrity ; there was scarcely any part singing, no 
glees, duets, trios, quartettes : no scope offered for that 
passion for sweetly blended melodies, which, like the 
greater delicacy of tracery in the polished marble, 
seems to be the more refined and true in its conceptions, 
the more polished the rough gem of human nature be. 

A book which would please both student and out- 
sider ; that would be as acceptable in the drawing room 
concert as in the class room song; a book that would con 
tain the best of the old songs plus a lot of new ones ; a 
book that would contain the best things in the way of 
part singing, etc., that could be obtained ; — in short, a 
book that would be, so to speak, head and shoulders 



above anything of the kind published, and be a credit 
to Old McGill — such a book it is the intention and hope 
of the committee to issue, and, with the sympathy, good 
will and hearty co operation of every student of McGill 
it will succeed, and not without. 

With reference to the work done so far, as hinted 
above, the book has been divided into two parts (in one 
volume), Part I containing only college songs, Part II 
containing selections for part singing, chorus, etc. 
Part I has been almost finished, the Faculty songs from 
Medicine, Arts, Law and Donalda’s alone remaining to 
complete it. Part II has been commenced on. and 
already a number of pieces have been fyled, and it is 
just here that the committee would like to receive sug- 
gestions for the insertion of suitable glees, duets, etc. 
As to the nature of the changes, many old songs have 
been transposed to a more suitable key, many accom- 
paniments re arranged, many choruses harmonized, 
and the fact that Mr. Gould, Mus. B. (who has lately 
been appointed Librarian), has consented to look after 
the musical portion of the book is sufficient guarantee 
of a high standard of excellence in that department. 
Owing to the enlarged scope of work, the committee 
cannot see its way clear to an issue before the spring, 
so that those Faculties which have not yet sent in their 
Faculty songs are urgently requested to do so at once, 
so that there may be no unnecessary delay at the last 
moment. Any suggestions as to music, etc., will be 
gladly received and noted by the various representatives 
of the different Faculties as below. 

FACULTY. REPRESENTATIVE. 

Donalda’s, Prof. Harrington, Chairman. 

“ Moyse, Vice-Chairman. 

Medicine, Mr. R. Wilson, jr., ’93, Secretary. 



< ( 




A. G. Nichols, ’94. 


Arts, 


(< 


W. Donahue, ’94. 


u 


<< 


F. J. Day, ’94. 


Science, 




N. Evans, B.A. Sc, 


<< 


« 


A. R. Holden, ’94 B.A 


Law, 


( ( 


A. R. Hall, B.A. 



“ “ J. R. Cameron, B. A. 

Veterinary Medicine, Mr. Campbell. 
“ “ “ Denny. 



Y. W. C. A. 

The first Theo Dora (Missionary) Meeting of the 
| Y. W. C. A. was held on Thursday, October 20th, at 4 
: p.m., the subject being “Mission Work in our large 
| cities.” It was the privilege of those present to listen 
to Miss Barber, of the W. C. T. U., as she told of her 
work among the women and girls of Montreal. 

Miss Barber spoke most earnestly for a yet larger 
number to take upon themselves the ‘‘Pledge of the 
White Shield,” and all that it means. Miss Lighthall 
who is so active in connection with the Chinese Classes, 
was present, and spoke of the Jewish work in this city, 
referring especially to Mr. Newmark and his Mission. 

I This address was followed by a paper on the Jewish 
work in New York, in charge of Mr. Warszawiak, and 



24 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



then came brief reports of the Jerry McAuley Mission 
in New York, and of the work in Toronto. 

The last few moments of the hour were devoted to 
items of general missionary interest, Home and Foreign. 



TQeQill TGedieal Soeiefg. 

The second regular meeting of this Society took place 
in the upper reading room of the college on Saturday 
evening, Oct. 22nd ult. Mr. T. A. Dewar, the president, 
in the chair. The attendance was good and the 
programme interesting. After the usual formalities, 
Mr. C. A. Yearwood (final year) presented a case report 
with differential diagnosis. A very animated and 
interesting discussion followed, in which many of the 
final men present took part. Mr. Yearwood’s diagnosis 
was “ Paralysis following Chronic Rheumatism.” 

Mr. Robert Wilson (final year) then read a report of 
a case of “Typhoid, complicating Pyaemia.” On 
Saturday evening, November 5th. the Society met again. 
The regular business was taken up, after which the 
question of replenishing the drugs was decided, Messrs. 
Fry and Robertson being appointed to make the neces- 
sary replacement. A very interesting paper on “ Colo- 
rado, its climate, soil and scenery,” as bearing on 
Phthisis, was read by Mr. Haight (final year). This 
was a resume of the reader’s personal experiences and 
observations during some months residence in the 
country, and will long be remembered by those present. 
A unanimous vote of thanks was tendered to Mr. 
Haight. Mr. Byers (3rd year) presented a case report 
of “ Hip joint disease ” It is hoped that other 3rd year 
men will follow this very good example- I11 this con- 
nection, reference may be made to the suggestion that 
a division of the Society into a final and a primary 
branch would in a great measure do away with that 
“ indifference ” spoken of by the President in his recent 
address. By such an arrangement, every Saturday 
night would find part of the Society at work. It is of 
course understood that this division would only apply 
to ordinary meetings, and not to such as are arranged 
for by the programme committee. The idea is certainly 
good, and could only be productive of excellent results 
if put into practice. On Saturday evening on 12th inst 
Prof P. T. Lafleur, M. A., will address the society, 
subject “Empiricism.” 



Undergraduates 'Literary Zoeief^- 

The Society met on the evening of Friday, Oct. 28th, 
the President in the chair. No business of importance 
was transacted. The entertaiment commenced with 
a reading by Mr. A. Friedlander, who displayed great 
dramatic talent and power. Mr. F. H. Graham followed 
with an essay upon a scientific subject, which he 
treated in a good literary style. The meeting was 
treated to a delightful song by Mr. Donahue. The 
debate was upon annexation. The speakers for annex- 
ation were Messrs. H. A. Honeyman, S. M. Munn, and 
W. C. Sutherland. The speeches of the first two 
gentlemen were effective, and after Mr. Sutherland’s 
rapid and telling speech, the debate was clearly won 



for the affirmative. Messrs. Dresser, A. Smith, and S- 
Archibald spoke for the negative, all most ably ; and 
if Mr. Archibald failed to turn the decision, he certainly 
made a splendid attempt. If the new men continue to 
distinguish themselves as they have done so far, what 
may not our Society become. A v ote of opinion was 
then taken with regard to the future desirable for 
Canada. It resulted: for Imperial Federation, 19; 
for independence, 6 ; for annexation, 5 ; for remaining 
as we are, 15. 

Delta Sigma Society. 

The second regular meeting of the Delta Sigma 
Society was held on Thursday, October 28th, the 
President in the chair. 

The Secretary called the roll and then followed the 
programme of the meeting. The debate, ‘‘Resolved 
that the Modern Languages should take the place of 
the Dead languages in an University education,” was 
supported on the affirmative by Miss Brown and Miss 
Hargrave, on the negative by Miss Fairclough and 
Miss Macdonald. A vote of the members on the merits 
of the arguments used resulted in a victory for the 
negative by a majority of four. After a short discus- 
sion of the subject, the meeting was adjourned. 



The Montreal Veterinary Medical 
Association. 

The regular fortnightly meeting of the above Society 
was held in the lecture room of the Faculty of Com- 
parative Medicine on Thursday, Oct. 28th. After 
enrolling the new members and transacting other busi- 
ness. The hero of the evening appeared in the person 
of H. E. Denny, who for the short period of one hour 
held the attention of a very critical audience spell- 
bound. His subject was antiseptics and was dealt 
with in a very scientific manner. On concluding he 
was very highly complimented by the different profes- 
sors. Mr. Lamb also reported a very instructive case 
that had come under his notice during the summer. 
Mr. Brainerd reads a paper at the next meeting Nov. 
10th. 



The Society for Study of Comparative 
Psychology. 

The above Society held its regular meeting on 
Tuesday, Oct. 18th. 

After transacting the regular business and balloting 
for the new members, the annual address was delivered 
by Prof. Baker. 

The character of the address and the able manner 
in which it was delivered showed that it had been the 
subject of considerable study, and that the writer 
placed considerable reliance on most of the theories, 
that have been advanced respecting the mental ability 
of the lower animals. That certain phenomena are 
clearly the outcome of mental processes was ably illus- 
trated. The entire address was of such a nature as to 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



25 



render any synopsis we could make unappropriate. 
At the next meeting Messrs Campbell and Cleavers 
will read papers. 



Great and onerous are the duties ot Dr. Bell’s Third 
Year clinical clerk. After arraying himself in robes 
of white and having taken a course in aseptic bathing, 
chiefly confined to the hands, he strolls nonchalantly 
into the operating theatre, thinking himself the cyno- 
sure of every eye. He parades before the admiring 
gaze of his fellow- students with such an air of wisdom 
and unassuming confidence that he could not justly be 
looked on as other than the most exemplary type of 
the modern follower of the great and only Aesculapius. 
Having read his exhaustive but aimless report, he 
folds his arms across his breast, takes his stand in the 
rear of the operator, on whose transparence he depends 
for his view of the operation. Here his duties cease. 



THbrap^ Tlotzz. 

It is pleasant to ecord the growth of the Library 
during the past three months, 472 volumes have been 
added: 72 by purchase, 173 by binding, and 227 by 
donation ; amongst the latter Mr. Peter Redpath (the 
friend of the Library, par excellence) has given no 
volumes. The McGill Graduates Society, 47 volumes, 
and 70 volumes from various donors. 

The work in the new Library is progressing rapidly, 
the roof is on, so that the work in the interior will be 
going on during the winter, and September of next 
year is spoken of as the date of opening. It will not 
only be a very handsome building, but it is said that 
the reading rooms will be very commodious. 

In addition to the before named Mr. Macdonald has 
further enriched the Applied Science Library with a 
donation of 362 volumes. 



Ijcgal ^Briefs. 

The Freshmen have started in at a magnificent 
pace. It is said they absorb every word, and close 
their notes in the form of a deposition, “ And further 
deponent sayeth not.” • 

The Third Year are less precise. The other evening 
a M. Le President ” stayed regular proceedings in order 

to Examine Tr../...l’s “ witness. ” Joh 11 conducted 

the cross-examination. 

Gentleman.— If I pickup a purse, containing money 
on the street, and have means of ascertaining the 
owner, in order to restore it to him, but fail to do so, I 
am as bad as a thief. In fact, ge ntlemen, I am a thief. 
(Hear, hear). 

In a case of McDonald vs Topps in the Magistrates 
Court, on the 9th of July last before Judge Barry, a 



curious question arose. The Plaintiff took a seizure 
before judgment on the ground that the Defendant 
was about to abscond from the Province and the proof 
he made was that Defendant had said u I will draw m} 

pay and get to out of this/’ 

The lawyer for the defence at once asked that the 
seizure be quashed, as there was no evidence that the 
region named by the Defendant as his destination was 
out of the Province of Quebec with the presumption all 
the other way. 

The witness was cross-examine i at length, and re- 
fused point blank to swear that the Defendant in the 
expression used did not mean the city of Quebec. 

J udge Barry has the case en delibere. 

The Faculty Owl occupied a most important and 
responsible position at the theatre last Friday night. 
The Committee are now being met with the ancient 
but appropriate query : “ Owl’d or young, what was the 
price of that bird ?” 

“ There is a young fellow called 

Who is now almost worn to the bones 

He’s so loaded with notes 

That they fill all his coats 

It’s said when he reads them he groans.” 

The originality of the above is vouched for, 



F. J. Hatchett, Law ’91, who in July last successfully 
passed the Bar examination for admission to practice 
has opened an office in the Temple. 



Science Jottings. 

The pressure brought to bear upon him has induced 
R.S. to substitute trousers for his knickerbockers. 



The Science Freshmen are beginning to show signs 
of promise. They are said to have subscribed to 
Theatre night expenses, more liberally than any other 
year in any Faculty. 



The Glee Club has changed the hour of practice 
from Thursday to Wednesday at 5 p.m. 



A warning : Let the members of the Senior Class 

look well to their ways. After the “ most able case 

of silly ignorance ” on record, it would not be out of 
place for those dignified gentlemen to ponder over the 
depth of meaning contained in the expression A = * ) 2 ; 
otherwise, the sound of “ weeping and wailing ” will 
be quite audible next April. 

For a part of last week the wearers of the “ blue and 
grey ” were much be- k< Holden” to one of their number 
for having obtained the promise of a special recognition 
of their enterprise on Theatre Night ; but, alas ! owing 
to the mulish propensity of ’93, their cherished fad has 
yet to be realized. 



26 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Could the following in a letter picked up in the 
avenue have reference to the moon : “ Full to-night, 
full last night, full eleven nights out of fifteen.” 

The class reporters in Science are : T. McLeod ’93, 
C. H. Longworth ’94, F. Wilkin ’95, S. Bishop ’96. 



Thvtz *Hzwz. 

Messrs. Howard and Leroy have been elected to 
represent the second year on the Reading Room 
Committee. 



In the report of the Sports, the name Sutherland 
should be read in place of “ Bucker ” in the list of the 
Arts tug-of-war team ; and the captain was Mr. John R. 
Dobson, B.A. 

For the excellent music with which we were 
furnished on the day of the sports, Mr. Win. Bond of 
the third year is to be thanked, and the band of the 
Prince of Wales Rifles. 



It is rumored that some Arts men, fond of fruit, are 
in the habit of going over to the Science building at 
lunch time to eat electric currents. This is all right so 
long as the power is not required to dine a mo’ vora- 
cious Faculty. 

In this connection it may be mentioned that the first 
year has Latin to-Dey and French to-Morin. 



The Dean has come to the conclusion that the first 
year Science is altogether too pushing- 



Prof . — “ Don’t put your hand on the mercury ball, 
that’s the way Hamilton has of heating the class- 
rooms.” 



A meeting of the Students of the Faculty was held 
with regard to the adoption of a university pin, which, 
we were wrongly given to understand, had been 
adopted by the students in Medicine. It was decided 
to have nothing to do with the pin in question. At 
the same time a general opinion was expressed, favor- 
able to the selection of some such ornamental distinc- 
tion, to be chosen by a committee representing all the 
students. A few dissented. Of course, it’s a matter of 
a pin, yon. 



Fourth Year Man . — “ And have I to grind up all 
that third year work again ? ” 

— ” That’s what the calendar says.” 

F. Y. M . — “ I thought we were living near the end of 
the 19th century.” 

— “ Why, that’s just it, my boy. We are living at 
the end of the 19th century, and it falls upon us, whose 



misfortune it is to constitute this last generation » 
revert to the customs of those gone by. But we u. 
forward to a change, and that’s what fin de . i!e 
means.” 



Compapafroe TEedicine. 

A. Gaudry, D.V. M. (Laval), is taking a post gra- 
duate course in this Faculty. He proposes taking a 
McGill degree. 

Dr. Gunn (M.D., L RCP.) (Eng.) has consented to 
conduct the annual series of Therapeutical experiments 
in connection with the Montreal Veterinary Medical 
Society, special attention to the toxic effects of the 
secretions of the animal body 

Professor Chas. McEachran, who recently had the 
misfortune to sustain a severe sprain of the knee joint 
while in the field at a meeting of the Montreal Hunt 
Club, is now able to be out and is once more at the 
College. The boys are all glad to have Dr. “ Charlie ” 
with them again where his genial face was greatly 
missed. 

We are glad to say that the long talked of Reading 
Room has at last been fitted up in the most modern 
style, and can confidently state that it stands without a 
rival in the Dominion if not on the Continent, thanks 
to the indefatiguable efforts put forth by the students 
more especially of the Second Year. 

The long lost “ Charlie Ross ” arrived in town on 
Friday, in time to take in the “ Cruiskeen Lawn.” 
What’sthe matter with ” Henry ” the 1st (of his kind). 

We are reliably informed that each one of the Art’s 
and Science were presented with a card as a reward of 
merit for their behavior at the Academy of Music last 
Friday p.m., by Miss Hamilton We are much pleased 
to know that they did not disgrace the time honored 
University. We are pleased also to know that Miss 
Hamilton is endeavoring to keep up the old fashioned 
Sunday School custom, and the Arts no doubt thought 
that she was a most genial sort of teacher. 



Genial John Malloy, whose smiling visage is one of 
the pleasant objects that greet the early morning 
anatomy student, has at last fallen a victim to the Ta- 
Ra-Ra-Boom-De-ay craze. 



It is with regret that we announce the serious ill- 
ness of L- Sherman Cleaves, president of the class of 
’94. His many friends, among the Meds and the Vets 
will join us in wishing him a speedyrecovery. 

“Oh, what a horrid brute!” To which we most 
heartily say. Amen. 

This is a progressive age. The world is constantly 
changing. Things that were new yesterday will be old 
to-morrow : and the veterinary have taken to singing 
sacred songs. 

Speaking about singing, the Vets now boast of two 
quartettes who vie with each other for excellence, 
much to the amusement of the audience and their own 
discomfort. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



2 7 



"Donalda Tlzvoz. 

Owing to the weather, the class in Geology has been 
obliged to forego their rambles as “ collectors of ! 
fossils,” not 44 antiquities.” This is a disappointment 
to those who wished to become proficient in wielding 
the hammer. 



The fourth year are indebted to the kindness of one 
of their number for a delightful opportunity of enjoy- 
ing social intercourse free from the associations of 
“ cap and gown.” 



Class “ ’93 ” have appointed a committee from their 
number to arrange for a 44 class pin.” Suggestions are 

in order. 



The “Donaldas” appreciate the thoughtfulness 
which supplied them with Programme and Souvenir 
of Theatre night. Those who attended feel that the 
students may “ gloat ” over their success. 



Yes, we all did “ Warner,” but she said she was not 
afraid of an honor science course, so long as she had a 
Derrick to help her. Neither was she afraid of any 
shoals u Tatley ” to “ Lee ” ward. 



The Reading Room is appearing in better colors, 
thanks to the exertions of the present committee. 
Improvement is still to be looked for in the matter of 
Magazines. Members must adhere to the rule, that 
no book or paper can be carried from the room. 



An organ has been hired on advantageous terms by 
the Y.W.C.A., and stands in the second year class- 
room. Music is a pleasant a dition to the meetings of 
tlu Society. 



Musical boxes are much appreciated on the avenue. 



Juniors After Snow-Storm. 

Cause. They had forgotten to calculate the extra time 

required for a body to be moved up a gradient 
from which friction had been removed to a 
great extent. 

Effect.— Reprimanded for being late. 

November 2nd, io a m. 



Prof . — “ The tympanic membrane of the two ears did 
not vibrate in unison, and consequently music 
was a perfect torture to him. ,, 

Soph— But, professor, if some one played an awful 
discord would he hear it as a harmony ? 



What are our Sophomores coming to ? One of their 
number actually announced to a professor lately, that 
she had been looking at “that ladd ” without any 
satisfactory result being obtained. 



/^edical Class Imports. 

There was a grand old time in the Upper Lecture 
room on Friday. Two very momentous questions had 
to be decided : I. Was a Faculty or University Dinner 
to be held this year? II. If a Faculty Dinner were 
decided upon, who was to preside ? The room was as 
thickly packed as a “ Tangle-foot fly-catcher” in the 
middle of August. First Year men modestly stood on 
the back-seats, and exercised that peculiar function for 
which they are celebrated — their voices would have 
drowned half-a-dozen German bands rolled into one. 
Order, however, was restored when Mr. Bostwick 
stepped forward and explained the object of the meet- 
ing. The proceedings having been duly opened, Mr. 
Fry proposed a University Dinner. Then was Pande- 
monium let loose, and everybody but the proposer, 
seconder and another supporter of the motion yelled 
until the very panes rattled with excitement. Mr. 
Walker with much emotion declared that everything 
would end in “ a fizzle ” if a Faculty dinner were not 
held — so a vote was taken. The hands that went up 
in favor of the motion might have been counted on the 
fingers. 44 What’s the matter with a University din 
ner ?” demanded someone, and the whispering answer 
came, “Oh, its all Wright!” Then came the question 
of President. Mr. Johnstone, 2nd year, proposed Mr. 
Jamieson, 4th year. Mr. Deeks proposed Mr. Flem- 
ming. He said Mr. Flemming had an imposing 
appearance (which he has), that he ate well (this state- 
ment was greeted with tremendous cheering) — in fact 
he was his ideal president. Then up j umped Mr. Robt. 
Wilson, jun., and his remarks resulted in a little play- 
ful badinage between himself and Mr. Deeks, which 
was hugely appreciated by the assembled students. 
All this time Mr. Henderson (4th year) was nervously 
looking at his watch ; and at last, moved by an irresis- 
tible desire to absorb more knowledge, pathetically 
exhorted those present to remember that Dr. Lafleur 
was waiting to lecture. Then he sat down, looking 
like a gentleman at the stake as represented in Foxe’s is 
Book of Martyrs. So a vote was at once taken. It 



resulted at follows : — 

Mr. Flemming 142 

Mr. Jamieson 119 



Majority for Mr. Flemming 23 

And Mr. Henderson gathered up his note-books and 
“ scooted.” 



28 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



Messrs. Mathewson and Stearns have been elected to 
the Dinner Committee from the Third Year. 

We heartily welcome to the Third Year Messrs. A. 
R. Colvin of Trinity and Jas. Reeves of ’Varsity, whose 
presence among us helps to fill some of the gaps caused 
by the weeding out of March last. 



Dies Irae Dies Ilia 

{of the Ficsh man's first term postponed.) 

T’was on a Monday morning 
The sun shone bright and clear, 

But to the anxious Freshman 
The day was dark and drear. 

The awful thought came o’er him 
And it bowed him in distress, 

Whether Frankie would grind fast enough 
To get to letter “ S.” 

>{c * * * * 

Frankie quizzed his wretched victims 
And with “ R ” was almost o’er, 

When Cook, good angel, rang his bell, 
T’was peace for seven days more. 

Messrs. Fox and Frazer have been elected to the 
Dinner Committee from the Second Year. 



Some one has remarked on the honesty of the men 
who frequent the dissecting room this year. A Fresh- 
man whose rubbers had been lying around for half a 
day, found them without application to “Cook.” 
Wonders will never cease at McGill. 



The annual football match between the Freshmen and 
Second Year resulted in a victory for the latter. Score 
io to o. 

The following was the result of the meeting in first 
year, for election of officers : — President, F. J. Lee ; 
Vice-President, Tom Tetreau ; Secretary, L Draper ; 
Class Reporter, W. T. Scott. Messrs. D. D. McTag- 
gert and T. B. Ferguson were elected to the Dinner 
Committee. 

The successful candidates at the recent supplement- 
al have been shaking hands vigorously. Dr. Gird- 
wood’s question on static and motor electricity shows 
that the w r orthy professor intends his class to keep pace 
with the times. 

“ Bill Crisp ” sends me the following. I have been 
compelled to make some very extensive alterations in 
the verses ; and if “ Bill Crisp” aspires to the vacant 
Laureateship he must really be a little more careful in 
regard to rhythm and metre: — 

I saw it but a moment — 

That crisp one-dollar bill — 

And thoughts of pipe and ’baccy 
My mind began to fill. 



When lo ! the sports collector, 

In his charming, easy way, 

Talked over foot-ball, cricket, 

And other forms of play. 

He urged me to endeavor 
To exercise my skill, 

And ended with the question, 

“ Have you a dollar-bill ?” 

I saw it but a moment — 

That crisp one-dollar bill — 

Whose presence is a passport 
To all that’s good and ill — 

But ah ! the Class Reporter 
Observes me in the Hall — 

(For Class- Reporters, mark you, 

Are noted for their gall) — 

Says he, “ What interest have you 
In journals at McGill ?” 

And takes with an angelic smile 
That crisp one-dollar bill ! 

I saw it but a moment — 

That crisp one-dollar bill — 

And though it has for ever gone, 

I love and mourn it still. 

But Cook was such a friend to me, 

Matriculation day, 

He talked like some philosopher 
In a paternal way. 

He spoke of fame, of shining lights — 

He made my bosom thrill, — 

So thanking him Idisinterred 
That crisp one-dollar bill ! 

It is strange that the St. Johns' News , through its 
correspondents, should every now and then attack 
McGill College students- These attacks are altogether 
unwarrantable. “ Dorchester ” complains of the stu 
dents marching out once a year, and blames the police 
for not dispersing their “mobs.” “Dorchester” is 
evidently a person with narrow-minded views, who is 
utterly unacquainted with the usual conduct of stu- 
dents in University cities, and fails to recognize the 
truth conveyed in the couplet : — 

A little nonsense now and then 
Is relished by the wisest men. 

A march out once a year should be a source of 
pleasure to the people of Montreal, reminding them 
that they dwell in a city which can boast of the finest 
University on the continent. 



Messrs. McLennan and Du Vernet were elec ted on 
Monday to represent the Fourth Year Medicine on 
the Dinner Committee. 



The Victoria Armory presented a most brilliant 
scene on the evening of Nov. ist when the graduates 
and nurses of the M. G. H. received their guets at their 
annual “At Home.” The dresses of the ladies, the 
music, flowers and general arrangements all combined 
to make a perfect and charming spectacle. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



29 



1302 Import. 

In accordance with my instructions from the McGill 
Revolutionary Club, I wended my way up the avenue 
strewn with fallen leaves, a reminder of our fleeting 
existence on this terrestrial globe, or the devastating 
regardlessness of the Faculty at Christmas and in 
April — debating within myself which Professor I 
should first address. The object of my enquiry was to 
obtain the views of the different members of the 
Faculty as to the advisability of having Convocation 
three days earlier in the session, namely, on the 
twenty-seventh instead of the thirtieth of April. The 
subject was well debated at our Revolutionary Meet- 
ings, I mean of course the meetings of the McG. 
R. C , and, as I intimated before, I was appointed to 
interview the Professors. Sir W .... m was away, but I 
knew what his answer would be. He would rise on 
my entry, ask me to be seated, and listen to my expla- 
nations with a friendly smile. He would say, that so 
long as he remained Principal he would be glad if we 
would leave things as they are. And then I should be 
bowed politely out, and should come away w T ith the 
feeling that it was useless to go further, for Sir William 
had given his final answer. 

As the Dean of the Faculty, I first approached Dr. 

J n. When I entered his room I was greeted with : — 

“ Where is your gown, sir ? ” “ But, Doctor, I only-” 

began I- “ Can’t hear you, hum, hem ! ! ! Must have 
a gown, ahem-m ! ” When I returned clad in aca- 
demical costume I was most affably received, and 
stated my mission without interruption. 

“Ahem, hum! as I said some time ago to Mr. 
Pagnuelo, a third of a whale is more than the half of 
a herring, hem ! And if necessary we might reduce 
the required per cent, to twenty five, but as for other 
changes — impossible. At Dublin, besides learning that 
‘ Poi ’ equals 3.14159, we learned respect for existing 
things. That will do, sir, hem ! ” 

I found Dr. C sh in a great state of excitement, 

sending poor Hamilton on what seemed a fruitless 
search into every corner- 

“ Don’t interrupt me now, please ! Hamilton has 
lost my card, and the students are waiting for Prayers, 
As Cicero would remark ‘ Ncscio quo ire ,’ but I am 
of the opinion it would be better ‘ Ubi ire Ncscio ,’ 
or in Greek nnv etyw Come to me after Prayers.” 
At this juncture Hamilton came in with the card, and 
the Doctor rushed off to No. 1 class room. 

Before going to Dr. D...y’s room I referred to my 
“ D...y’s Phrase Book ” and learned off : “ Bon-jour, 

Monsieur le Docteur, comment vous portez-vous au- 
jourd’hui ? ” of which I delivered myself with well- 
feigned ease. His opinion as to the proposed change 
was very conservative. Said he : “ The devil-up-men t 
of McGill during the thirty odd years of my pro- 
fessorship has been continuous and marked. Un tel 
pas as you suggest would be to retrograde. All les 
Ecrivaim Modernes agree with me that the progress of 



any institution should not be retarded by any such 
movements.” 

Dr. M y had just finished one of his eloquent 

lectures on Moral Philosophy, and discovered in my 
quest a subject for Psychological enquiry. “ Even had 
your movement,” he remarked, “the plea of Utilita- 
rianism, which it has not, it could be easily refuted. 
For the Utilitarian Theory of moral life suggests four 
questions: — (1) Does the allegation that men desire 
pleasure above all things accord with the facts of 
experience, etc., etc. But it is unnecessary for me to 
proceed, this is all in my Introduction to Ethics, which 
will lead you to a better mind if you peruse it care- 
fully. What is matter ? never mind, etc.” 

As I mounted the stairs to Dr. E n’s sanctum I 

had unpleasant memories of vain efforts to distinguish 
between the uses of W and ov and when to use imper- 
fect subjunctive and when the pluperfect indicative. 
In answer to my question he said : “ The students of 

McGill, I fear, do not rightly appreciate the pathos of 
Virgil and Homer. Can anything be more pathetic 
than Hector’s farewell to Andromache, or ^Eneas’ 
lamentations over the fate of his friends. That you 
want a shorter session is but another proof that none 
of you can enjoy those moving scenes. Just listen to 

this,” and picking up a Virgil Dr. E n read in a 

voice full of feeling: “ Turn membra toro ,” etc 

“ Pars ingen ti subjecere fereiro iriste minister ium , et sub 
jectam , more parentum aversi tendere facemP 

I rose to the occasion, and with tear-dimmed eyes 
and heaving breast I withdrew. 

Dr. H ton was watching John sweep up the 

glass with which the floor was covered, owing to some 
unexpected explosion of ill-smelling gases. He replied 
that he would like to be with the students, but that 
since the Song Book was not yet out he did not see 
how it could be done this year at least. 

When I spoke to Mr. E .... r, he said : “ Unless the 
students find my lectures on Mill too much of a grind , 

I see no reason why the session should be shortened. 
Let us treat the question logically. First, either you 
are right and I am wrong or I am right and you are 
wrong. Now, secondly, all who think as I do think 
right. I think as I do. Therefore I am right (Barbara). 
You see how simple the question becomes when reduced 
to syllogistic exactness.” 

The replies were such as to lead me to the conclu- 
sion that it would be unwise to carry the matter any 
further, accordingly I reported to the aforesaid Club 
the result of my labors. The same evening the 
following resolution was proposed and carried : — 

“ That in the opinion of the members of this Club 
it would be most unwise to alter any of the existing 
institutions of this University ; 

“ That the name of this Club be changed from 
Revolutionary to Conservo-Antiquarian ; 

“ That the Secretary be instructed to forward to the 
Faculty a copy of these resolutions with a few lines 
expressive of our commendation of their desire to 
protect our ancient usages.” 

Wydown. 



3 o 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



* PERSONALS. 

E. A. Mackenzie, B.A- ’91, is editor-in-chief of the 
Prcsbytarian College Journal. 

Rev. George Smith, B A. ’86, has returned to take a 
post-graduate. 

Miss Grace Ritchie, BA. (McGill) ’88, M.D. 
Bishop’s College ’91, has opened an office in Mackay 
street. There are now four ladies practising Medicine 
in the city. 

Miss J. V. Palmer, B.A. ’88, has been appointed 
teacher of German in the Girls’ High School, Montreal. 

Miss M. Murphy, B.A. ’88, is attending the Philo- 
sophy Lectures in Cornell University. 

T. B. Pote, D.V.S. (Class of ’92), is located at Mt. 
Vernon, Indiana, and is reported doing well. 

Dr. R. J. Chipman (Class ’92), a general favorite in 
his college days, is now doing a good practice at 
Portland, Oregon. 

Dr. Tatley (late house surgeon Montreal General 
Hospital), writes us from Edinburgh, where he has 
recently passed with credit the first of the triple 
examinations. 

Mr. Don. Armour, of Toronto University, passed 
through town a short time ago. His reminiscences 
of Montreal are always pleasant. 

Dr. James Henderson, of the Montreal General 
Hospital confined to his room, through typhoid. His 
brother house surgeons wait upon him in turn during 
the night. 

Dr. R. Hugh Berwick (Class ’91) is, we regret to 
say, prostrated with pleurisy. 

Dr. E. A. Grafton (Class ’92) is again in the city, 
having just returned from England. 

Dr. A. Dewar (Class ’90) is, now practising at Cook- 
shire, Que. 




pyihLiJPS & (20., 

STATIONERS, 

BlanH 800K Wafers at \d Printers, 

1755 X 1757 NOTRE DAME STREET, 

J — im: 

AGENTS FOR 

THE ®AM©KAP 1 I 

WRITINC MACHINE. 



What do you think, 

Pll shave yov for nothing 
And give you a drink. 

JOSEPH VEZIN A, 

12 McCill College Av., just below St. Catherine St. 

PRICES; HAIR CUT 15 CENTS. 

Shaving, 12 Tickets Sl.oo. 



Dr. Patterson (Class ’92) is, we understand, success- 
fully passing examinations in Scotland. 

Dr. F. W. A. Brown (Class ’92) was in Montreal 
last week. 



Marisen Molillin’s Surgery 

Recommended for the use of Students by the 

Prof . Surgeryin McGill and other Universities . 

PUBLISHED ON SATURDAY. 



READING NOTES. 

Students, teachers and physicians get Turkish baths 
at half price at the Turkish Bath Institute in this city. 
Travellers say that nowhere in Europe can you get a 
better bath. 

Medical men generally are now recommending the 
Turkish Bath for the general health, and more espe- 
cially for rhuematism, coughs and colds. It is a very 
pleasant remedy. 

Gentlemen have the early morning, afternoon and 
evening hours. 



For Sale only by the Exclusive Agent, 

E. M. RENOUF, - 2238 St. Catherine St. 

Copies can be seen at my store. 



WeRICAM ffUR 




27 St. Lawrence Main. 



This Store is known to he the cheapest one in the city to buy 
furs and have repairing done. J 

Come in and see our prices, and you will find you can do better 
with uslthan with any other Furrier in Montreal. 




1 



• 9 







Hot Water, Steam and Sanitary Engineers, 



TO THE 



McGill University Building. 

Royal Victoria Hospital. 

Board of Trade Building. 

PLANS and ESTIMATES GIVEN ON APPLICATION. 



ABBOTTS, CAMPBELL & MEREDITH, 

Advocates, Solicitors, etc. 

No, 11 Hospital Street, 

MONTREAL. 



J. B. Abbott, 

H. Abbott, Jr., Q. C. 



H. J. Hague. 



C. S. Campbell, 
F. E. Meredith, 



J. S. Archibald, Q.C., D.C.L. Geo. G. Foster, B.C.L. 

ARCHIBALD & FOSTER, 

Advocates, Barristers, Etc- 

GUARDIAN ASSURANCE BUILDING, 
i8x 8t. James Street, 

* MONTREAL. 

ATWATER & MACK IE, 

Adoocates, Barristers, Commissioners, etc. 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 ST, XAJMIIES STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

Hon. John S. Hall, Q.C., M.P.P. Selkirk Cros*. 

Albert J. Brown. W. Prescott Sharp. 

HALL, GROSS, BROWtl & SHARP, 

Advocates, Barristers and Solicitors. 

.... TEMPLE BUILDING .... 

185 St. James Street, - - - MONTREAL. 

MACMASTER & McGIBBON, 

ADVOCATES, BARSISTEES, ETC. 

The Temple, St. James Street, 
MONTREAL. 

Donald Macm aster, Q.C. Robert D. McGibbon, Q.C. 

F. S. Maclbnnan. 



ROBERTSON, FLEET & FALCONER 

- ADVOCATES - 

1ST St. James Street, 

IMrOIISTTZE^EjATj. 



SurgiGal instruments 

and Ghemteal Apparatus. 

/ 

A full stock constantly on hand, imported direct from the leading 
manufacturers of the world. 

... AN INSPECTION INVITED. . . - 

LYMAN. SONS & CO., 

.*. 384 St. Paul Street. 



Q DA IIP Photos, Combination or direct, 

• — — form one of our specialties— first 

• class work. 

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 



R. SUMMERHAYES & OO., 1 Bleury Street. 



» «a 

H 3 

feBo 

2S" 






<5^ 



-AT- 






5* IEAKN & HAMBISON, 

1640 & 1642 NOTRE DAME STREET. 



Ilf 

It* 



W. & F. F CURRIE & CO , 

100 GREY NUN STREET, 

IMPORTERS OF 

SCOTCH GLAZED DRAIN PIPES, 

Chimney Tops, Vent Linings, Flue Covers, Fire Bricks, Fire 
Clay, Portland Cement, Roman Cement, Canada Cement, 
Water Lime, Whiting, Plaster Paris, Borax, 

China Clay, etc., etc. 



MANUFACTURERS OF 



Bessemer Steel Sofa> Chair & Bed Springs. 

A LARGE STOCK ALWAYS ON HAND. 











MILL. 



cfc OO.. 



16 and 18 DeBreeoles Street, Montreal. 



Manufacturers of the Finest Quality EleotFS'Plated Were* And Sole Manufacturers of the Celebrated 

WM. ROGERS' Knives, Forks, Spoons^ Etc. 

A. J. WUIMBEY, Manager. 



FURNITURE 



FOR — 



Ppofessops and Students 
At Special Prices. 

RENAUD, KING & PATTERSON, 

652 CRAIG STREET. 



Good Fall and Winter 



BOOTS 



J2.J5, 3.50, 4.00 PER PUR. : • 

Just the thins for Students. 

Win. F. SWARDOW, 

2337 and 2339 St. Catherine St. 



It goes without saying that 



j 



Is the favorite Studio with McGill. Class pictures a 
specialty. Photos of Professors on sale. Special rates 
as usual to Students. 

COR. ST. CATHERINE AND VICTORIA ST. 
Bell Telephone 3346. 



Sporting Goods. 

Manufacturer of 8illiard and Pool Tables 
Footballs, tennis and cricket bats, balls, etc. 
All at lowest prices at 
D. NIGHTINGALE, 1742 Notre Dame St. 



••• 



MILLS, 

Furrier & Matter, 



ST. CATHERINE ATT., 



2nd door West of Pool. 



e. a- gertH. 

DIRECT IMPORTER OF HIGH CLASS 

HAVANA CIGARS. 

B. B. B. PIPES. 

Sole agent for Rtoasi Fbebes 
EGYPTIAN CIGARRETTES. 

Smoke Berth’s Celebrated Mixture. 

2285 ST, CATHERINE QUEENS BLOCK. 



WE MAKE NO BONES 

About it when we tell the Students that we carry the largest and 
test aP8orted st ock to be found in Montreal, in the following lines, 
at ROCK BOTTOM PRICES, and give 5 p.c. discount to 
Students. So come to us for your Hats and Caps, Underwear, 
Furnishings, also Boots and Shoes at 

JOHN ALLAN'S, 

659 TO 665 CRAIG STREET, - - New Bleary. 



Established 1859. 

HEOSTIR/Tr R. GBAT, 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST, 

144 St. Lawrence Main Street, MONTREAL. 

The Dispensing of Physicians’ Prescriptions a specialty. 

Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers supplied with 
Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 




136 TO 140 ST. PETER STREET, 

CORNER CRAIG. 

Branches all over the City. Telephoned ; Bell, set and 1 T 4 B. 




IT IS THE CH(HCEST SMOKING TOBACCO THAT EXPERIENCE 
CAN PRODUCE OB THAT MONEY CAN BUY. 



McGILL 

- 1 “ **fcw*»*j* van JL* u X • 

MIXTURE SMOKIITG- TOBACCO- 




