TheMcGILL gazette 

VoL. III.— New Series. MONTREAL, FEBRUARY i, 1877. No. 4 - 



A Plea for Consistency, 
Our Own Land, 
Distribution of Energy, 
Editorials, 

U. L. S,, - - - 

Correspondence, 



CONTENTS. 



rAGB 

29 

30 

31 

32 

33 

34 



America before Columbus, 
College World, 

Exchanges, 

Personals, - 
Items, . - - - 



PAGB 

34 

35 

35 

36 
36 



The McGill Gazette is jmhlisJved Monthly dvring the College Year by the Undergraduates of the University. Terms, 
%t.00 'per annum / Single Copies, 20 Cents. For sale at> Drysdale^s^ Dawson! s, HilCs and Clark s. Svhscriptio'ns and Adver- 
tiseftnents to he sent'jLo the Secretary, McGill College. Contributions should he directed to the Editors, McGill College. 

The Gazette regyieMs contributions of Tales, Essays, anxl all stiitahle Literary Matter from University 'men. It imU open 
its columns to a,ny controversial matter connected with th>e College, 'provixled the communicodions are 'written in a ge'ntle'mc^nly 
manner. 

All Matter intended for Publication mvM be accompanied by the Name of the Writer in a Sealed Envelope, which will be 
opened if the Contribution is inserted, but ivill he destroyed, if rejected. This rule wUl be strictly adhered to. ' 

W. D. LIGHTHALL, Sec. 



MACMASTER & HALL. 



FRANK J. KELLER, 



181 ST. JAMES STREET. 

I>. MACX^^TER, B.C.L. J- 8- HALL, Jb., B.A., B.C.L. 




MBCIi BTriBIOIISra- 

206 ST. JAMES STREET. 



36itni;6tir, f oUrrlor, Sic., 

Chambers, 1, 2, 3 & 4, First Floor, Up-Stairs. 

— OVER— 

CITY AND DISTRICT SAVINGS BANK, 

No. 178 ST. JAMES STREET, 

MOlSTTREAI-rf 



Wo 

President of the Centennial Photographic Co., Philadelphia^ 

AND 

Iff Kje 

MONTREAL, CANADA. 

O - ■ 

CLASS PHOTOGRAPHER. 



tale ..--,- 72 73, 75. 76, and ’77 

HARVARD 74, ’75, and 76 

PRINCETON *74, 75, and 76 

DARTMOUTH 74, 75, 76, and 77 

McGILL 74, *75, and 76 

WESLEYAN COLLEGE ,--.75 

LAFAYETTE COLLEGE 77 

PRINCETON SEMINARY 74, ’76. and 76 

ANDOVER SEMINARY 74, and ’75 

PHILLIPS’ EXETER ACADEMY 74. and 76 

ABBOTT ACADEMY - .-’76 





THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



CROWNS OUR EFFORT 

' IN OFFERING THE 

BEST FITTING CLOTHING 

JN THE MAEKET. 



db SOUNT, 

19 ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STREET. 



ULSTERS AND OTHER OVERCOATS A SPECIALTY, 

ABD AT VEEY LO^ BATES. 

Students will find it to their advantage to trade here. 



TO MEDICAL MEN. 



SPECJAJ.TV, 

OUTFITTING OF MEDICAL STOCKS 

COlfPRIBING A GOOD AB80RTHENT OF 

SHELF BOTTLES, SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS, &o.. 

IN CASES AND 

THU PUREST OF DRUGS GIVEN AT REASONABLE PRICER 



LAVIOLETTE & NELSON, 

cBEMmmj 

215 NOTRE DAME .STREET, 

(Second door west of St. Gabriel) 

MONTREAL. 



McGILL COLLEGE TEXT BOOKS. 



Dawson Bros. 

Keep always on hand a full supply of all the 

Text Books m use at the Coluege, 

ALSO, 

; STATIONERY IN ALL VARILI Y. 



STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 
STUDENTS’ POCKET INK BOTTLES 



AND 



NOTE PAPER AND ENVELOPES 



Stamped with the University Die for the use of Students. 



FOR SALE AT 



159 ST. O'^nxdlES STR^EET. 



McGILL COLLEGE TEXT BOOKS. 

0 

W. .DRYSDALE & CO. 

Invite the attention of Students and others to their large 
assortment of 

Standard Library Books 

Latest Editions always in Stock at Lowest Prices. 



CATALOGUES MAILED FREE. •‘®t 

232 ST. JAMES STREET. 232 

HEARN & HARRISON, 

IMPORTERS AND MANUFACTURERS 07 

tSptital #oofls. gransil ®JifodsIites, 

Levels and Surveying Instruments, 

Drawing Instruments, Magic Lanterns, 

MICROSCOPES, THERMOMETERS, dc., Ac., 

SIGN OF THE ADMIRAL, 

Nos. 242 & 244 NOTRE DAME ST., 

MONTREAL. 




VoL. III. — New Series. 



MONTREAL, FEBRUARY i, 1877. 



No. 4. 



A PLEA FOR CONSISTENCY. 



One of the first things of which the student is reminded on j 
entering College is, that he is no longer a boy, but a man, ^ 
and that his instructors will on all occasions treat him as a ! 
man. In return for this piivilege he is expected to conduct ; 
himself accordingly, and bid a long farewell to boyish pranks | 
and boyish practices in general. Few will refuse to admit , 
that their part of the contract is not always kept, and that a | 
manly behaviour and an earnest effort at selfculture are not | 
the characteristics of every Freshman, or even of every' j 
•Senior. While making this avowal, however, the student 
wonders whether the propriety of a similar admission from ' 
the other parties to the contract could be made as obvipus to 
them as it is to him — whether those who lose no opportunity 
of telling him that he has emerged from boyhood would con- 
fess that some of the restraints which are imposed upon him 
are calculated to remind him very forcibly that, in some re- I 
spects at least, he is still regarded and treated as a mere boy. j 

The undergraduates of McGillhave no right to complain 1 
that the library of the Faculty of Arts does not afford them j 
the intellectual nutriment requisite for acquiring a liberal ' 
education, or even for the pursuit of special studies. But ! 
there is one regulation in connection with it which never fails 
to elicit an incredulous smile, so reluctant is one to believe 
that it can have been devised by the Faculty of a modern 
university. According to this remarkable edict, one of the 
shelves of the library is placed under the ban of excommuni- 
•cation, all access thereto being strictly forbidden, inasmuch 
as it has pleased the Faculty that the students should remain 
ignorant of a whole branch of science, and that branch is 
Physiology ! They are at liberty to work through the round 
of all the others, but “ the proper study of mankind ” is not 
the study proper for them, and the motto )iyiDaKe cavrbv 
must be written over the portals of McGill. 

This conduct appears all the more unaccountable to the 
student when he reflects that it is entirely at variance with 
the teachings of the most eminent writers on education, who 
consider the subject as one of the most important requisites 
in an elementary education, some indeed proclaiming it to be | 
the propaedetic jfor excellence. He finds also that the im- | 
portance of a preliminary acquaintance with this line of know- ’ 
ledge is unceasingly insisted upon by the great systematic j 
thinkers of the day, who urge that, whatever part a man may 1 
be called upon to play in the world, there is no study which | 
he can so ill afford to neglect. “ Strange,” says Mr. Spencer, 
“ that the asseriion should need making ! Stranger still that 
it should need defending ! Yet are there not a few by whom 
such a proposition will be received with something approach 
ing to derision. Men who would blush if caught saying 



Iphige'nia instead of Iphigenia, or who would resent as an 
insult any imputation of ignorance respecting the fabled 
labours of a fabled demi-god, show not the slightest shame in 
confessing that they do not know where the Eustachian tubes 
are, what are the actions of the spinal cord, what is the 
normal state of pulsation, or how the lungs are inflated. 
While anxious that their sons should be well upm the super- 
stitions of two thousand years ago, they care not that they 



should be taught anything about the structure and functions 
of their, own bodies — nay, would even disapprove such instruc- 
tion. So overwhelming is the influence of established 
routine ! So terribly in our education does the ornamental 
override the useful 

1'he same writer has conclusively shown that a previous 
acquaintance with physiological science is absolutely neces- 
sary lo the study of the new and fascinating science of soci- 
ology, since a rational science of society must be based upon 
a rational science of life. Another distinguished advocate of 
biological studies thus concludes an eloquent address : — 
“ Leave out the physiological sciences from your curriculum, 
and you launch the student into the world undisciplined in that 
science whose subject-matter would best develop his powers of 
observation ; ignorant of facts of the deepest importance for 
his own and others’ welfare ; blind to the richest sources of 
beauty in God’s creation ; and unprovided with that belief in 
a living law, and an order manifesting itself in and through 
endless changes and variety, which might serve to check and 
moderate that phase of despair through which, if he take an 
earnest interest in social problems, lue will assuredly sooner 
or later pass.”f 

When the perusal of these and numerous other enthusiastic 
encomiums on the educational value of physiology has inspired 
a student with an earnest desire to remedy so great a defi- 
ciency in his early education before it is too late, he naturally 
repairs to the library, where he expects to satisfy his scientific 
cravings. But, on making his application for the books and . 
plates he desiies, he receives the startling information that 
unless he can produce a certificate that he is a medical 
student, they can on no account^^e placed in his hands. 
Perhaps he is attending the* lectures on mental science, and is 
advised by the professor to consult Carpenter on mental 
phenomena, but he may not, for such a book would be 
fraught with peril for the untried mind of a fourth-year stu- 
dent. Another may be following the course in zoology, and 
feels an irresistible wish to go a step higher in the scale of 
life than the lectures take him ; perhaps, too, he may wish to 
study conscientiously some parts at least of the evidence on 
both sides of the great biological question on which he finds 
everybody, however ignorant, ready to prate ; but he is not 
permitted to give scope to his scientific tastes, because the 
path leading to these studies is beset with dangers to which 
his tender mind would be sure to succumb. Another, again, 
is attending the prelections on moral philosophy, and in con- 
nection with the theory of determinism is advised to read 
Huxley’s celebrated essay oti the Automatism of Animals. 
But on learning something more about reflex action and the 
functions of the different parts of the brain, he wends his way 
towards the library only to receive the tantalizing information 
that the books which treat of nervous action, and the magni- 
ficent plates which would so admirably illustrate the subject, 
are beyond the pale of his legitimate inquiries. 

But perhaps the student would be less restive under these 
peculiar regulations, perhaps he w'ould be more inclined to 
respect the motives of those who seem to cherish the fond 
hope of training up an army of paragons of innocence and 



Education, p. 43. 



tllu.xley’s Lay Sermons, p. 93. 




30 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



guileless simplicity, if he saw some show of consistency in the 
measures adopted to check his moral decline, instead of being 
presented with one of the most flagrant instances of straining 
at a gnat and swallowing a camel. While he is prevented 
from studying the constitution of his own body, and from 
learning how to make it the useful servant instead of (as is 
so often the case) the lord of its high tenant, ample opportu- 
nities are afforded to him for corrupting his mind with some 
of the most reprehensible works of ancient and modern 
literature. He may read with impunity the tales of Voltaire, 
of Chaucer, and of Boccacio ; he may gratify his prurient 
instincts by a perusal of the most obscene productions of the 
dramatists of the Restoration ; or, if he be so minded, he may 
regale himself with the lascivious sentiments and study the 
revolting customs of certain epochs in the annals of Greece 
and Rome, to the degeneracy of which modern history can 
furnish no parallel. He may consult classical dictionaries 
passim^ but woe betide him if he is caught reading the article 
“Anatomy” in some cyclopedia. An expurgated Juvenal is fit 
only for^squeamish schoolboys, but an eviscerated physiology 
primer is the only book of the kind which a young man of 
twenty can read without danger. To boggle over an indecent 
line in the classics is ridiculous prudery, but alas for the un- 
blushing hardihood of a man who can look over the pages of 
a physiological atlas ! To be well posted up in the amorous 
intrigues of Zeus and his compeers is an essential part of a 
liberal education, but no decent man ought to profit by the 
teachings of a science which would show him how temperance 
in all things is infallibly rewarded, and incontinence as inevi- 
tably punished. 

From the absence of restrictions with respect to the literary 
and historical pabulum of the library, it may be inferred that, 
as regards these subjects, our authorities have had too much 
good sense to attempt to exercise a supervision over the stu- 
dents as to what they shall read and what they shall not read, 
but have preferred to trust in the natural healthiness of a 
young man’s mind and in the influence of sound moral teaching. 
They have doubtless felt that the students have reached the 
age when such restraints would be resented as an insult, and 
vvould be productive of more harm than good. But why phy- 
siology should be made an exception, why, of all studies, that 
one should be singled out whose important practical bearings 
and obvious moral influence ought pre eminently to outweigh 
any supposed disadvantages — this is a question which postu- 
lates an answer before the students can convince themselves 
that they are in a University and not in a Kindergarten. 



OUR OWN LAND. 



“ French Canadians are a harmless people.” 

“ As a race, the Lower Canadians are quiet and inoffensive.” 

So begin all usual accounts of the gens around us. But a 
glance will show, that remarks of the above nature, made 
about any nation, awaken nothing but doubts respecting its 
manliness \ and it is hardly fair, at a sweep, to be so severe 
on a people made up of very diverse elements. For however 
we may regard them singly, we should find a surprising 
difference of intellect, and range of character, if we honestly 
studied the matter. 1 heir history, broadly looked at, is very 
peculiar. Many of the emigrants to old districts were regular 
criminals, many more, the lowest of the city canaille; by no 
means the best of beginings. Not that those parts or even 
the cities, were totally destitute of goodness, but there existed 
so little intelligence free from vice, that a high standard could 
not be maintained. Afterwards, the constant Indian wars 



by killing off the most courageous, did much to lessen alll 
indications of spirit ; an effect again produced, and this time 
seemingly for good, by the long Anglo-French struggle. In- 
fact, at one time, most of the young men ran off to the 
forest, married natives and lived in the semi-savage condition 
of Courreurs du hois — all ou! of sheer dislike to military 
service. 

The dwellers in distant concessions were entirely different, 
in the first place, with respect to origin, and secondly, as to 
circumstances. Exported from France, where their fathers 
for ages had been ordinary farm vassals, they were here 
settled in families and with some distinction of district ; and 
when once across, they lived the quietest of lives, a simple, 
healthy, honest people, now and then no doubt oppressed, 
but infinitely better and better off than their city fellows. 

Some of these old localities may still be found, where the 
ancient customs and legends still exist, and the richer accent 
betokens a peculiar dialect. Such was St. Hycainthe in the 
days when shoe factories were unknown, and the voice of the 
engine was not in the land. You passed along the streets 
and men touched their hats to “ Monseigneur.” You walked 
through the market place, and there, in the shade of her red 
charette^ smoked the seller of potatoes and wheat. The 
strange dirty old beggar leading a little grey dog, demanded 
his sou ; and many were the stores of Bonhotnfue la Bouc- 
ane ” — how he never washed ; how he held mysterious tryst 
with Satan ^ how the dog lived altogether without food ; and. 
how both of them never slept. Here loo loitered the sun- 
browned hooded maiden, there the enterprising apple-man 
with his long home-spun coat and monotonous cry. Behold 
in that nook how gracefully coquette Marie chews gum, while 
all the Francois and Telesphores smoke round and flatter 
like Greeks. 

The scene is full to overflowing with characters worthy a 
Hogarth ; everywhere stretches the line of carts ; everywhere 
bags of pease and large pale cabbages block the path ; on all 
sides run streams and cross-streams of abundant chatter ; for 
this is a greai day, and comes but once les quinze jours,. 
Down somewhere in the corners, we know there must sit a 
white faced nun selling the latest charms and longest rosaries 
to pious matrons, and ever between the pauses muttering 
words of prayer, And then the talk— the old strange stories,, 
that centuries ago were the folk-lore of France, all about 
Malbrouck, and great men now half forgotten in la patrie 
itself. 

Wait till evening comes and the habitants^ whip in hand 
gather their charrettes^ the girls sitting below. Suddenly the 
” Au revoirs ” cease, and a voice calls out 
^ ‘ Malbrouck est mort !” 

Startled as you may be, you are still more suprised when, 
another responds, 

“ C’est pas vra * ” 

“ Oui, il est mort. ” 

“ C’est pas vra ’ ” 

With vun. — 

“ II est mort et enterre” 

“ Tu dis ca pour me blaguer.” 

and the whole bass chorus replies : 

“ Ca va ma-a-al.” 

Then the assembly scatters in every direction, and the 
country roads are filled with a line of racing carts, driven by 
reckless gay Lotharios, or staid half-shaven men. Such is the 
Saturday appearance of a market town ; the farm life is, fioin 
what we can observe, quite monotonous. 

Another type is that presented by Kamouraska, opposite 
Murray Bay, once so important a place as to form a judicial 
centre, Montreal and Quebec being the only others. The 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



31 



town has an air of faded glory, like the shell of grandeur 
mourning its substance ; just such a locality where always 
clings that feeling with which we invest the last of a race. 
Ihe air is strangely foreign, — so Pompeii-like that the ad- 
vances of trade seem jarringly out of place. The houses are 
long and rambling,* with mahy windows, a gallery, a wide 
expanse of Swiss roof and oddities of architecture peculiar 
to themselves. Inside, there are low-ceiled spacious rooms, 
elaborate frieze-work, and here and there pieces of antiquated, 
spindley furniture, ‘‘ as neat as a pin.” 

The people are honest, friendly and very polite, always 
touching the hat and saluting by the seignorial title, and they 
are usually of fine build, ofttn large-limbed, and possessing 
light hair ; but the smaller, distinctively Gallic physique is 
most frequently met ; both t)pes different from those of the 
city. The feudal reg me, which lingered seventy years longer 
here than in France, was abolished in 1859, but in such 
quarters as this the atmosphere of vassalage is yet supreme. 

Eastward lies the demesne^ containing one of the three 
most ancient manor-houses of Lower Canada, and it truly is 
a fine old place. Walking along, you meet a gate leading up 
a wide good road, to what looks like an orchard and pine 
tree park. 'I'hat road was once the chemin banal^ the last a 
feudal word connected with the manor. On passing up to 
the inner porte one sees on both sides of him, wide splendid 
fields of growing grain — part of the seignorial lands. Open- 
ing the gate he meets a sight quite rare in the district — a 
large paved court, shaded with tall elms, and looking delight- 
fully cool. To the left, stands a quaint stone well-house, 
and the right exhibits at some distance an irregular cluster 
of farm buildings. Straight opposite is the vianolr itself, 
older looking than the elms — a long, very long, low building, 
one story and a half high, covered by a sloping roof and sur- 
rounded by a gallery. The walls are of painted, stone while 
the shutters, quite prominent where there are so many windows, 
are of that slender elaborate style, peculiar to everything 
French {and ancient. In rear there are curious wings, with 
small peaked windows, and at the end the wall, instead of 
being flat forms an obtuse angle, and is shingled to the level 
of the eaves. If the outside is strange, the interior is like 
untx) it, inhabited as it is by a branch of the powerful Tache 
clan. In the time of the Hon., Jean Baptiste, it was still 
luxurious, and his widow managed it in a similar 
manner : ” as the Fuel ids say. But the present Seigneur is 
an unmitigated spendthidl't, and has already lost ground- 
rent and revenues. He has caused a beautiful chateau to be 
built on the summit of his demesne, looking out to sea, but 
it still remains unfinished and the place is lor sale. 

Beyond the farm-buildings, at a little distance, is the 
moulin hanal^ whither the vassals wej*e compelled to carry 
their corn, and pay the price for grinding imposed by the 
Seigneur. This particular mill is at present in ruins, 
consisting of a round thick wall about twenty feet high, 
built of grey stone. On both sides there had been small 
doors, and between them, on the inside was a recess about 
a foot deep by three wide, and running all the way up, 
used apparently as a socket for the sails or other machinery. 

The people around are sturdy, and bear in unmistakeable 
traits the impress of the ancient regime. As a consequence, 
the men are bad farmers and exceedingly conservative, a 
fact which hinders every attempt to improve them. As 
“our fathers did, so shall we and our children do,” is the 
old, old argument winch keeps the wood-sawyer’s son a 
wood-sawyer still, and makes the race a proverb for want of 
enterprise. But there is something most promising in the 
loyalty with which they stick to old fashions, and when 



education shall have opened the close-shut eyes there is 
as grand a future before them yet, as before the quicker- 
witted Anglo-Saxon. 



DISTRIBUTION OF ENERGY. 

In average communities, and under ordinary circumstances, 
the desire to work has to be restrained rather than fostered, 
and measures are taken more for the restriction of energy 
than for its encouragement. 

It is generally the case, that men are too eager to engage in 
a profitable pursuit, and that the supply of workmen is more 
than commensurate with the demand for them. The natural 
consequence is, that to obviate, the difficulties which must 
arise from such a state of affairs, either, on the one hand, the 
spheres of these popular pursuits must be enlarged, or on 
the other, new avenues to success, new outlets for the already 
overflowing tide of ambition must be opened and provided. 

Such, we say, is the case in most communities. Such, 
however, we regret to say, is by no means the condition of 
affairs at McGill. 

Here at college, to speak plainly, the range of pursuits is 
altogether too wide, and the energy of our students, instead 
of being concentrated upon one or two points, in which case 
success would be certain, is distributed with inevitable weak- 
ness over a field much too large, much too extensive for the 
number and capacity of the students. 

It is generally allowed that the chief aim of students in 
attending college is to acquire an extended education. Of 
the truth of this there can be no doubt. College life, how- 
ever, would be barren, and to a certain extent useless, were 
it not for those organizations usually found in such establish- 
mnets, which but for their extreme evanescence at McGill 
might be called college institutions. 

There are, exempli graiidy for Arts students, a Literary 
Society, a Glee Club, a Football Club, a Sports Association, 
a Snow-Shoe Club, a Skating Club, a Founder’s Festival 
Committee, a Reading-Room Committee, a Gazette Com- 
mittee ; and for theological students a Debating Club, a Base 
Ball Club and a Croquet Club, as well as many other less 
important organizations, each of which at present demands 
attention, and all of which militate one against the other. 

It must be manifest that were some of these virtually obli- 
terated, the remainder would be much better attended to than 
at present, when, even were every student an Admirable 
Crichton, some must be neglected. If our literary energy 
were expended in one good literary club, and in trying to 
render the college gazette what I trust it will be, not only a 
financial but a literary success; were our superflous muscle 
applied to football, and were our tastes for sociability gratified 
and sated by an annual dinner, we would have results far 
more satisfactory and much more pleasant than at present, 
and we could point to our college institutions with pride, 
instead of seeing innumerable enterprises carried ad nauseam^ 
sickening and dying so frequently. 

Again, the men in college willing to do their fair share of 
work in these matters, are few in number, the whole w^ork 
being left to seven or eight, who find their efforts reward- 
ed by the sane officiousness, and their motives and intentions 
misconstrued arid misrepresented. 

Through the columns of our college organ, matters like 
these must be ventilated, and we trust that the pure breezes 
generally found where a little is done, but done well, will 
soon displace and dispel the mixed, murky clouds, existing 
where everything is attempted, but nothing accomplished. 



32 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 

ist FEBUARY, 1877, 



Kditors for J876-77. 

* Managinj^ Editor^ '78, D. C. McLAREN. 

*79, W. D. LIGHTHALL, Sccy. ’78, W. R. SUTHERLAND, Treas. 



'77, A. JAMIESON, B.A. '78, J. ROSS. 

'78, P. D. ROSS. *79, G. H. GROVES, 



Seldom or never has it been the case, that Englishmen, in 
any branch of science, trade, or adventure, have been afraid 
to risk competition with rivals of other nationalities. So 
true is this that in man}" departments, the name British is 
is regarded as a synonym for cosmopolitan, and the liberal 
principles which have governed and regulated the com- 
merce of the mother land, have had their natural normal 
effect in making her the foremost commercial power of 
the world. If, in the domain of science Britain has not 
occupied the same relative standing, it is owing, not to 
lack of genius, not to a want of talented able men bnt ratiier 
to a spirit of conservatism, prompted by a feeling the direct 
oppo.sitc of that which has always guided her comniercial 
enterprises. Though to a certain extent, this protectionist 
enactment — to apply a commercial phrase to science— might, 
when displayed in reference to foreigners and aliens, be 
justifiable; it becomes utterly, totally inexplicable when 
shown towaixls fellow-subjects in a different clime, who 
are though remote from the seat of Imperial Gk)vcrnment, 
nevertheless British subjects, in every sense of the word. 
British medical men have always held the foremost rank of' 
any in Europe. The professi »n as a whole is one which 
should be, and, we are rejoiced to say generally is liberal 
and generous in its ideas, and the standard though high 
has never excluded genius and merit when joined to the 
requisite practical training. It is simply a duty which 
medical men have to perform to their profession, and to 
the public, to exclude empirics, quacks, and incompetent 
men. This we say is a duty and it has hitherto been faith- 
fully, scrupulously carried out with good results to all con- 
cerned. Petty jealousy or timid fear of competition have 
seldom shut the door on true worth ; and though Britons 
look with comparative distrust on foreign physicians, colo- 
nial surgeons, e.specially Canadians, have been always treated 
as worthy of all confidence and res])ect. Howevei*, one 
morning last week the inhabitants of Canada, long in the 
habit of congratulating themselves upon the high standing 
of their medical schools, and boastful of the fact that the 
degrees of one of our college.s — our own Alma Mater— wei-e 
accepted and recognised by the British Army and Navy 



were rudely awakened from their di'cams by the re- 

port that the officers of (he British Custom House, forsooth, 
had decided to clear no Canadian steamers, unle.ss the sur- 
geons on board are provided with British diplomas. This 
rather startling fact was announced in a letter from Sir 
Hugh Allan to Dr. Campbell, the honoured heatl of our 
medical faculty. Sir Hugh in this matter displays the 
same spirit which has characterized him in all his actions 
in Canada, that is, of not tacitly accepting the badge of 
inferiority simply because we are colonists; and for this as 
Canadians we sincerely thank him. And more pai-ticularly, 
for his testimony as to the comparative value of English 
and Canadian medical degree.s, as McGill men we again 
thank him. As Sir Hugh says “for the last twenty years 
“we have carried Canadian surgeons on board our steamers, 
“as well as English ones, and the result of our experience 
“ is, that the Canadian surgeons arc equal, both in profes- 
“ sional acquirements and in gentlemanly bearing to those we 
“ receive from the colleges in England. Therefore I am not 
“ prepared to submit to this requirement, inasmuch as I 
“ think it great injustice to the institutions of this country 
“as well as to the young men who Study therein, in fact 
“it is a slight uj)on the Dominion itself.”. Sir Hugh has 
written to the British Government on this subject, and this 
combined with the expre.ssion of public opinion in the press 
of the country, will, we have no doubt, pi’oeure from the 
Imperial Gov^erna speedy repeal of this iniquitous I'egulation 
which has been prompted, as we have said, by the most 
despicable professional jealousy and conceived in a spirit, 
different far from that true British spirit of fair play which 
it should be the aim of every true Britoi* to foster and 
encourage. 



The WitwiaSy which considers our columns “ readable and 
“interesting under the present management,” contained 
some remarks a few evenings ago, on the Academia Com- 
merciale Bill, noticed in our last. It does not agree with us 
in its estimate of that institution ; but call.s attention to the 
fact, that the P>ench Government will have somethin^** to 
say in the matter, as far, at least, as provisions for efficiency 
are concerned. AVe are glad to learn that such is the case, 
but think that it AvjJl take a pretty thorough reform to 
make the stuif* required out of the material at hand. A 
good staff' would certainly be the best of beginings ; but 
not the only one required, and we take the liberty of saying, 
that the average student, even be that average high, is in no 
way fitted to take degrees, after so short a term as the 
Academia proposes. 



— Dr. Dawson is about to deliver a course of special lectures on 
the “limber Trees of Canada,’’ in connection witii the re«nilar 
botanical work. • ® 



33 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



There is a class, which we are glad to find is small, who 
seem to wilfully sink themselves in the delusion that our 
own University is not of the highest ranl^. They point to 
the large TiUmbei*s attending American colleges; they rave 
about the simplicity of the course ; the}' make comparisons 
unfavorable to the buildings ; and they crown all by show- 
ing, in the light of their own experience, the invincible 
stupidity of the student. To such as these we recommend 
the perusal of a late article in the London Mining Journal. 
It treats at full length, and in the highest terms, of our 
whole course and Faculties, leaving no doubt of the efficacy 
of the latter, and the tlioroughness of our curriculum; 
demonstrating in the plainest possible manner, the high 
opinion concerning us, which prevails in the English mind. 

In addition to this we should recommend a little travel in 
our own country and the neighbouring Union, especially to 
the ver} places of which they talk in such lofty strains. 
We are convinced that they would return silenced, if not 
completely satisfied, and ready to settle down like men to 
the “first English college in America.” 



I If students despise keeping their light hid under a 
bushel, or cannot contain their exuberant wit, let them 
send their lucubrations to the Gazette and we, the editors 
thereof, will sift the wheat from the chaff, and lay it (the 
wheat) before the eyes of an admiring world, always 
premising that there be some wheat in the heap. 

In connection with this there is another matter we may 
speak of, namely the carving of names, etc., on the college 
desks and benches. This habit is more easily explained, Tor 
everyone likes to leave some memento of his presence in 
the “ studious cloister’s pale,” even though it be such a 
monument of misspent time as words cut in the desks 
during lecture hours, to the detriment of other people’s 
property and his own penknife. 



The students owe their heartiest thanks to the Faculty 
for their kindness in making a rink upon the grounds. It 
has now been fit for skating for several days, and although 
small, still after the experiences of last year it would have 
been hazardous to attempt making a larger one. The 
Hockey Club (of which we give the list of officers in 
another column) has had some practice already, and we 
hope will be able to make a fair stand against the city 
clubs, after it has had a little more play. 

A vote of thanks is also due to Mr. Howard, the secretary 
of the club, for the forethought and trouble in getting good 
sticks from Halifax. Were it not for this the club would 
have been compelled to put up with what makeshifts they 



U. L. S. 

The remaining meetings of the Society promise to be 
even more interesting and instructive than those which 
have already been held. On the 6th instant, the thirteenth 
public debate will be held in the Association Hall, and the 
subject is: “Should the Imperial Federation be looked 
“ forvvai'd to as the political destiny of Canada ? — Is there 
“then independence?” There will also be a reading and 
an address from the president. 

On the 9th instant, an innovation will be made in the 
form of the evening’s exercises. The programme consists 
of four short essays, on four poets, with selections from 
their works. Tlie poets and essayists are as follows: 
Byron, iVir. Keller; Moore, Mr. Lonergan ; Longfellow, 
Mr. Monk ; Tennyson, Mr. McLean. 

* On the evening of the 16th the subject of debate is, “ Has 
“increa.sed wealth been favorable to the Morality of 
Nations?” An essay will be delivered by Mr. C. H. 
Stephens ; the reader is not yet appointed. 

The 22nd will be given up to an evening with the novel- 
ists ; papers to be given on Dickens, "J hackeray, Lytton 
and Scott. 

On the 2nd proximo a debate will take place on a philo- 
sophical subject; and the debaters are to be mostly students 



could find, a serious matter when a doubtful match is aT)out i honor class in philosophy. The form of the question 



to be played. 



We trust our readers will not take offence at the follow- 
ing remarks. We have- borne the nuisance patiently for a 
long while, and can keep silence no longer. What we refer 
to is the habit of some of our fellow students of scribbling 

O 

upon and defacing the notices posted up on the bulletin 
boai’d. Why anyone can take pleasure in such a thing it 
is difficult to perceiv'e, except it be to display his wit, or 
attempt at wit, in a prominent place. We hope that the 
Freshmen will take this hint ; we say Freshmen, because if 
it be any of the older students who so disgrace themselves 
it is hopeless to sj^eak to them, — we believe heartily in the 
proverb — There’s no fool like an old fool ; ” of course the 
word old is only comparative here. 



is, we believe, “ Is the Utilitarian theory of Morals the true 
“one?” 

It will thus be seen, that this month is well provided for, 
and we trust, that the efforts of the Committee to arrange 
interesting meetings will result in remarkably large attend- 
ances, and increased interest in the proceedings. We hear 
further, that thanks to the energetic exertions of the inde- 
fatigable Treasurer the funds of the Society are in a 
flourishing -condition. 

As we go to press, we hear that arrangements are about 
to be made with the celebrated reader, Mr. Yandenhoff, to 
give an entertainment under the iluspices of the Society. 



— Students complain of the bad state in which the avenuQ 
across the Campus is kept. 

— The Annual Glee Club Concert, in aid of the General Hospital, 
is arranged for Tuesday 13th, The members are in their usual 
good training and the programme is excellent throughout. Tickets 
may be obtained at De Zouche’s and Hill’s, or from any of the 
committee (A. D. Taylor, Secretary.) 




34 



THE MeGILL GAZETTE. 



C ORR ESPOND ENCE. 



Editors McGill Gazette ; — 

Gentlemen, — If you can give me space in the Gazette I 
would like to make a few remarks upon English language and 
literature, as taken up by McGill. One of our professors, in 
the first lecture he gave after the holidays, spoke shortly 
about the inability of most of the students to express them- 
selves clearly in their written examinations. 

I think that the examiners can expect little else in the 
present state of affairs. The entrance examination in English 
is mere nonsense. It consists, as all our students know, of 
writing a short piece from dictation, which any average 
candidate can do well enough to escape failure. It seems to 
me to be merely a courteous way of giving an examination in 
spelling ; but undergraduates in a University should be able 
to do much more than spell ; they should also be able to 
express their thoughts easily and grammatically, and the 
examination should be such as to ascertain whether or not 
they can do this. I believe that many men lose marks in 
examinations, because their words do not give the meaning 
which they had intended them to convey, and this is especially 
liable to happen to students who have not paid much atten- 
tion to their handwriting. 

It is true that the course up to Christmas in the first year 
remedies a great deal of this, but we do not think that the 
students, even with this three months preparation, are fitted 
to take up Anglo-Saxon language and literature ; and if they 
are, I think that something more interesting to general 
students might profitably be taken up in the ordinary course ; 
that the whole spring term should be spent in going through 
advanced grammar, and in writing short essays, etc. And it 
is unfair to expect students to prepare the latter part of 
Spaulding’s literature for the intermediate examination with- 
out having received aid from their professor. ^ 

I wish also to give some remarks concerning the honour 
work in English. Firstly, why should Marlowe be read and 
not Ben Jonson ? Not that Marlowe is unworthy of being 
studied ; he has that which some of our mincing modern 
writers want very badly — life and force. I only wish to say 
that he should not be preferred before Jonson, who is gener- 
ally acknowledged to be the greater writer. And why should 
all Shakespeare’s plays be inflicted upon us ? Shakespeare 
wrote much trash, although it is almost heresy to say anything 
against him now-a days. In my own opinion Milton was a 
greater poet ; certainly he was a purer. 

Again, why should so much of Pope be given to us, and 
nothing of Gray, of Cowper, of Coleridge, of Wordsworth ? 
Nothing of Childe Harold, a noble work, which far transcends 
any of Pope’s tersely monotonous verse ? The soul of poetry 
is enthusiasm ; where can you find enthusiasm in Pope ? 
Homer himself could not fire the heart of the sickly little 
man. Taine, a standard writer on English literature, says : — 

Living ideas and candid passions are necessary to make a 
poet, but in him, (Pope) seen closely, we find that everything, 
to his very person, is tricked out and artificial.” While 
quoting Taine, we must say that we think he would be a more 
original and a more trustworthy guide to English literature 
than Craik and Dunlop combined \ he views English writers 
and English writings from the standpoint of a learned and 
impartial foreigner ; and as a foreigner, free from English 
prejudices, he sees faults and beauties to which our perception 
is insensible, unless attention is particularly directed to them. 

In conclusion, why should we be limited to so few authors, 
with half as many commentators? In my opinion, the 
lectures should take the place of the commentaries and 



literary histories ; thus giving the student opportunity to take 
up more of our English standard writers. In honour work in 
Classics, something like thirty authors are read, and lectures 
delivered all through the college course; in our native 
language, that in which we speak and think and write, we are 
limited to some eight authors, and receive lectures upon them 
during one year of our college life. 1 he winning of the 
Shakespeare gold medal would be a light thing indeed, were 
it not for the really hard work necessary to master the text- 
books on the language, which, by-the*bye, share in the few 
lectures allotted to English literature. And let me say that 
when our graduates go out into the world they are not judged 
by the amount of classical learning they possess, sipmly 
because they have little opportunity to display such learning, 
and that most Canadians could not appreciate such display 
if it were made. They are judged by their ability to speak 
and write good terse English ; and such ability they will 
never get without a better training than is now offered by 

McGill. . . r 

I hope you will be able to find space for the insertion of 

these remarks, and oblige 



AMERICA BEFORE COLUMBUS. 

( Concluded. ) 

In the spring of 1007, Thorfinn Karlsefn, a Norwegian 
prince, having married Gudrida the widow of Thorstein, a 
bold navigator and a son of Eric the Red, was induced by his 
adventurous spouse to explore the coasts of Vinland. Such 
a wedding tour, unlike our present trips to New York or to 
Philadelphia, perhaps, was one of danger and uncertainty. 
Thorfinn therefore equipped three vessels, having on board 
160 men and an abundance of cattle struck out boldly for the 
“Land of Grapes.” As one might naturally expect he at first 
lost his way in the Northern Seas, but succeeded at last in 
reaching Vinland, where he established himself with all his 
men. He named the country Hop and left a curious and 
most exact description of Mount Haup Bay. 

Troubles with the natives, however, soon came to mar the 
peace of the colony, and though victorious over the long- 
haired squarefaced enemy, still Thorfinn deemed it prudent 
to leave the country after a sojourn of five years. During 
this period his wife presented him with a son, the first Nor- 
wegian born on., these mysterious shores. He also left in 
commemoration of his passage an inscription on the rocky 
banks of the Taunton River, of which it now remains for us 
to speak. 

A large square block of gneiss presents on the river side a 
flat polished front, and is covered over with characters which 
for many years baffled the skill while they puzzled the brains 
of inquiring antiquarians. Time, perseverance, and deep 
study at last enabled two Danish professors to unravel the 
mystery, to decipher the hieroglyphics. The substance of the 
whole confirming the tale of the Saga, which, we may here 
remark, are with a fe v exceptions true and faithful recitals. 

In one of our local reviews there is cited a French author, 
M. Gravier, who, having perused the writings of several emi- 
nent antiquarians, and visited the inscription with its sur- 
roundings, expresses a confident belief in its authenticity. 

Thorfinn arrived safely in Nofway, where he was received 
withthe greatest honours by a people ever ready, to admire 
and encourage naval triumphs, and hazardous expeditions. 
He subsequently returned to Iceland where he died. Three 
bishops, several princes and the well known Magnus Stephen- 
sons are among his descendants. 



THE MeGILL GAZETTE. 



35 



Several of his companions set sail for Vinland, but simply 
retraced the footsteps of their chieftain. 

Meauwhile a number of hardy and ambitious colonists 
flocked to Vinland, lured by its beauty, fertility, and healthy 
climate ; they always came by Greenland which was not then 
the barren, ice bound shore which borders Baffin’s Bay. 
Ocean currents had so altered its climate, that green fields, 
and wooded hill sides might have been seen where extend the 
deserts of the present day. fhere were also several churches 
and a cathederal, the remains of which have been lately dis- 
covered. 

To resume our narrative. P>ic-Upsi bishop of Gardar, the 
site of the cathederal we have just mentioned, undertook a 
voyage to Vinland, and finding there churches and villages 
established a see with the permission of the reigning pontiff. 
The curious round tower of Newport is supposed with good 
reason to be a baptistery of the time, and in fact its style of 
architecture seems to be a rude imitation of those seen in the 
ancient cities of Europe. It is stated, and on excellent author- 
ity, that the crusades were preached in Vinland in the 13th cen- 
tury. This assertion is also confirmed by a recital of the time. 
There, among the steel clad warriors of France, Britain, and 
Germany, were seen the stalwart forms of men from beyond 
the sea, their dress, manners, and appearance, contrasting 
contrasting strangely with the polished armour and waving 
plumes of their associates of the old world. Later on the 
tithes of Vinland are mentioned in the registers at Rome, 
where they are still extant. 

We thus behold Vinland in its most flourishing condition, 
colonists came unceasingly, when a change in the ocean 
currents put an end to its prosperity. 

In Greenland the days grew colder and the summers 
shorter, crops were blighted, and from the mountain sides 
the ever advancing ice fields invaded the plains. The in- 
habitants sought more genial climes, leaving houses and 
fields to the solitude of the ice desert. The “Black Pest” 
broke out in Europe and ravaged America; pirates inter- 
cepted the once frequent communications so that in 1377 
the bishop of Gardar having died no news of it reached 
Norway till 1383. As Iceland and Greenland furnished 
Vinland with colonists their fall brought about its neglect, 
and soon little or nothing was heard of it, So ended Noj- 
wegian relations with America. 

Other nations are said to have tried their fortiines in the 
New World, notably the Irish, and the Chinese, and the 
latter in some of their old writings described it as Fou- 
Sang. 

However we cannot for a moment imagine that Columbus 
was not a discoverer. His knowledge of America was only 
that which his study of natural sciences and personal obser- 
vation had given him. Moreover it is but reasonable to 
suppose, that the possession of such documents as we now 
find, would have smoothed the rugged path of ridicule and 
of opposition which he had to traverse. 

He is said to have often quoted those striking and almost 
prophetic lines of Seneca : 

Venient annis saecula seris 
Qiiibns Oceaniis vincula rerum 
Laxet, et ingens pateat tellus, 

Typliis que novos detegat orbes, 

Nec sit terris ultima Thule. 

The time has come, and fairer lands than those of‘ the 
older world are inhabited by an enlightened generation, 
although they lie beyond the cold and distant, Ulthna 
Thule. 

Viator. 



COLLEGE WORLD. 

Harvard crew are working at the machines. The papers 
give daily reports of progress. 

A football match lately played between the Harvard and 
Yale Freshmen terminated in favour of Harvard. 

Yale Freshmen have put a crew in training to represent 
the class in all boating contests in the spring. 

Two new professorships have been established at Prince- 
ton, one in architecture and the applied arts, and the other 
in mechanics and civil engineering. 

The authorities of Boston University are considering the 
plan of limiting the size of each class in the Aciuiemic De- 
partment, and filling the same, yeui* by year, by competitive 
examinations. 

The third Inter-Collegiate Contest came ofl' in New York, 
on January 3rd. Looking over the list of Colleges named 
as contestants, we notice that the higher class Universities 
are conspicuous by their absence. 

Dartmouth Navy lost its be ats an<l boat-house in a gale, 
on Saturday' night, January 20tli, 1877. The loss is very 
heavy, amounting in ill to nearly $1,300. We cannot 
retrain from offering our S3’nipathies to our Hanover friends 
on the occasion of such a calamity'. 

The Rowing Association of American Colleges held its 
Seventh Annual Convention in December last. July 1 1th 
is named as the date of the University race ; Greenwood 
Lake, about forty miles from New York, will probably^ be 
the place where it is to come off*. 

The Yale students have managed to get the better of 
their Faculty in a very ingenious manner. The professors 
had ordered them to cease all singing in the college build- 
ings (probably because they sang so very badly), and the 
students, who have regular attendance at chapel, retorted by 
considering the rule as applying to the hymns, and allowed 
the professors to sustain the chapel singing by themselves. 
Our brethren at Yale evidently go in for “ whole hog or 
none.” 



EXCHANGES. 



— The last nuiiiber of the Harvard Lampoon is considerably ahead 
of the one immediately proceeding it. On the whole it is charac* 
terized by remarkable originality and esprit. The religious 
editor” is getting rather stale ; but if he is a permanent institution, 
we will summit with the test possible grace to his not unpleasant 
jokes. 

— The gem of the Harvard Advocate is an article on Blang, 
as witty as it is original. After the regulation platitudes we have 
been bothered with upon the evils and vulgarity of talking 1 q a 
free and easy manner, it is refreshing to tumble upon so much 
common sense. The Profanity of our Ancestors ” is interestin*^ 
and readable; and the verses which open the numbt-r “Line's 
to myself,” have some rather ingenions ryhmings. 

— Of the Bowdoin Orient in general, we cannot give an opinion, 
as the number we have before us, (January 17th,) has two papers 
in it which are not due to students, and which are far above the 
usual style of a college paper. We refer to “An Occassional 
Poem ” by S. V. Cole, and Reminiscences of College Friends,” in 
which occur the names of Longfellow, Hawthorne, and other 
famous Americans. 



36 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



— The Dalhousie Gatette for January 6th comes out rigouroualy 
upon “Dirt” and “Day dreams,” and in both holds different 
▼iews from most people. 

— That “ newsy weekly,” the Cornell Era^ is again to hand. Would 
that its Xmas vacation had been indefinitely pndonged, or that 
defeat in the late Inter-Collegiate contest had destroyed the sick 
ening self-adulation which crowds its pages. Tlie exchange 
column opens with some ranting smart talk, characterized by a 
painful lack of common sense. If the editorials of the “ monthly, 
tri-weekly or quarterly” are merely “ somebody else and water,” 
we dread the thought of what its own must be. 



I in her case all expectations were fully realised ; and now that she 
' has left us, bearing with her the kind wishes of all connected with 
' the hospital, w'c trust that her chos *ii path will be one of pleasant- 
* ness ; and that she will sometimes give a thought to those sincere 
' friends and fellow-workers she leaves behind in Montr'eal, and more 
I especially to that one in particular, wdiose kind care and sisterly 
! afiection made leaving home an easier and pleasanter matter than 
it generally is. 



ITEMS. 



— The Dartmouth says “ we have in vain tried to glean from it 
(the McGill Gazette.) a picture of the student-life at McGill.” 
Now in the first place, we humbly submit tlmt it is not our duty 
to give such a picture, as most of our suberibers know all about 
it already. In the second place, we fail to see that the Dartm/)uth 
sets ns a cood example in the matter, and finally, we maintain 
that their is no siudent-lifc at ail at McGill. We have no dorm- 1 
itories, and our students are scattered broad cast over a city I 
containing one hundred and fifty thousand souls. I 

As for the Dartmouth itself, we must say that it is one of the 
foremost of college journals, and a credit* to its student-editors. 
One article however astonishes us not-a-little ; it is a paper upon 
” Our Indian Policy,” which decides that “ humanitarian sentiment 
towards the Indian has generally been a mistaken zeal.” It is not 
the sentiment which has been mistaken ; the mistake has been in i 
the selection of men to carry out the idea of that sentiment. The ' 
Indians on our side of the line can bring ten thousand fighting 1 
men into the field, and the force which matches them, and 
performs police-duty in Manitoba besides, is three-hundred st;ong. | 
Yet we have not had a white-man, as such, murdered by Indians ! 
for }ears. 

In another place the following sentence occurs : “ The swarthy 
'varrior, (painted by novelists,) who in dignity and valor rivalled • 
an Alcibiadcs,” “ is very different from the degraded skulking 
Sioux or Chippewa.” The only remark we have to make on this, i 
is, that depraved skulking vagabonds as they are, it is i.ot Ions: 
since they overthrew the best troops of the United States in a 
pitched battle. 

lliere are m.xny other opinions in this article to which we take 
exception, but *we have given too much space already to the 
mutter. 



PERSONALS. 

- ’75, Mr. D. F. Wilkins, B. A., B. A. Sc., is now Professor of 
Mathematics and Chemistry in All)r;it University. 

J. E Robidou.x, advocate has been appointed Lecturer in 
Civil Law ; this position having been rendered vacant by the 
severe illness of His Honor Judge Rainville, for some months past. 

— ’75, .Mr. W. F. Ritchie B. A., is at present in Heidelberg 
Germ ny 

— ’73, *76, Mr. A. F. Ritchie, B. A., M. D., C. M., is walking the 
hosi^^itals in London E. 

— ’75, It is with great pleasure we record the late marriage of 
Mr. Russ Wood Huntingdon, B G. L., to aq American lady, and | 
as congratula ions are yet in order, heartily extend them our 
best wishes. , 

—Messrs. Greenshields.Doherty and Bissaillion have been admitted ! 
to practice at the Bar of Montreal. 

’74. J. J. R. Spong, B.C L , is at present teaching in New York 

— Having noticed the absence of one of our favorite nurses 
from her post of duty, we naturally asked the reason of the same, 
and in re sponse to our enquiry were told that she had given up j 
the care of many for the more pleasant occupation of looking j 
after one; in other words she had gone to be married. 

Well ! “ it is an ill wind that blows nobody good,” and though | 
the M .G., Hospital loses a most eflicient and faithful servant, yet 
we are sure that the gentleman who was so lucky as to win nurse I 
Randall for his own, has indeed won a prize. Ever ready, I 
attentive and kind, thoroughly up to her duties, we feel sure that 



— At a meeting of students held for the purpose, a Hockey Club 
was formed, the following students being selected oflicers : — Presi- 
dent, A. D. Taylor ; Captain, Harry Abbott ; Secretary and Trea- 
surer, R. J. Howard. Committee, Fred. Torrance, Lome Campbell, 
W. Redpath. A few members had a game on Wednesday, 31st 
January. 

— The 0. B. J. J's. will hold their first annual spree on the eve- 
ning of April 1st, \%11 .—Advt. 

— The exuberant freshman now declaims: — “I am that Miss 

C ! ! 

— Old Prob. says, on or about the 14th inst., look out for Valen- 
tines. 

— A Senior has lost a coverless inkbottle, which he describes as 
an heirloom. We are better informed than that, however; we are 
quite certain that said article was filched by said Senior in his 
Freshman year. 

— 0 Pudor ! 0 Pietns! A medical freshman has at last been 

found who is afflicted with modesty ! Witness please copy. 

— We are happy to be able to state that new and more suitable 
desks have been provided in the Clinical theatre, at the hospital. 

Special lectures on Mollusca are being delivered by Dr. Carpenter, 
on Tuesday and Thursday afternoons at 2 o’ch-ck, in the Museum. 
As Dr. Carpenter his m ide a specialty ot this subject, we promise 
an interesting course to those who attend. 

— In view of the prol)able pan-slavic occupation of Europe, it 
has been suggested that a chair of the Russian language be 
substituted in place of the' present German one. 

— The Rink is in operation ; but the skaters are not. 

— The First Year recently started a strike in classics, by handing 
round the following lines : — 

Strike Freshman ! strike with care, 

Strike in the presence of the Lecturaire. 

— The followdng have been handed to us for insertion by the 
secretary of the Reading Room Comm ttee: — 

Thornhill, Dec. 12th, 1876. 

Dear Sirs. —I have the honour to inform you that the two 
new.««paper racks at present in the Reading Room, and one other, 
to be placed there as soon as required, which have been prepared 
at a cost of $25, are presented to the Student's Rjading Room by 
Mrs. Henry Lyman. 

Trusting that they long may be of service to the Undergrad- 
uates, 

I remain, my dear Sirs, 

Yours very truly. 

To Chas H. Gould, Esq., H. H. Ly.wan. 

Sec. Reading Room Committee. 



Dec. 22d, 1876. 

Dear Sir. — At a meeting held on Tuesday last by the Commit- 
tee of the Student's' Reading Rf)om, it was unanimously resolved : 
•‘That the warmest thanks of this Committee be tendered to 
Mrs. Henry Lyman for her valuable present to the Reading Room, 
and also for the kind manner in which the presentation was 
made.” 

It is with great pleasure that I write, in compliance with my 
instructions, to inform you of this vote of thanks, and to request 
of you the kindness to communicate the same to Mrs. Lyman. 



