McGILL university 
JAN 8 1926 II 

MCGUI “ ior ary 

Fortnightly Review 

An Independent Journal of Literature and Student Opinion 



LIBRARY 



The 



Vol. I. No. 4 



Price 10 Cents 



Saturday, Jan. 9, 1926 



C O N T 



EDITORIAL 

Saved by Grace Simeon Lamb 

This Life A. P. R. Coulborn 

Haï-Kaïs R. de V A. 

Counterblast against “Vespasiano” F. J. Toole 

A Counterblast to Paradox C.T. Lane 

To my Counterblasters — God Bless 

Them “ Vespasiano ” 

Sonnet Brian Tuke 

Two Poems A. J. M. Smith 



EDITORIAL 

W ITHIN our College precincts — within them it 
has happened. The white-robed Knights of Ku 
Klux Klan of Kanada are with us. Lately many 
students of McGill have received little pamphlets 
inviting them to join this organisation. It professes 
to work for the maintenance of: — 

Protestantism Freedom of Speech and Press 

White Supremacy Restrictive and Selective 

Gentile Economic Freedom Immigration. 

Just Laws and Liberty Law and Order 

Our Public Schools Higher Moral Standard 

Separation of Church and State Pure Patriotism 
Freedom from Mob Violence 
It stresses the patriotic side of the work and protests 
a laudable championship of justice for all, with White 
Supremacy and Gentile (only) Economic Freedom. 

Now at last we have a chance to “be taught the 
significance and essential value of being loyal sub- 
jects” to the British Empire. This is what we have 
so long been needing. We must now realise that the 
sacrifices of McGill men during the War were as 
nothing. The memorials in our buildings to those 
who fell mean little. All thinking students will real- 
ise that they have hitherto been pcx>r patriots, and 
that in our darkness we were waiting for the light 
which is now offered us as British subjects by this 
great American organisation. 

One great advantage which the Klan offers us is 
secrecy — an Invisible Empire. Surely we must 
all know that the publicity of singing “God Save 
the King” in our theatres and halls renders it futile 
as an expression of patriotism. How foolish is it 
for any man to be seen openly wearing the King’s 
uniform: that does not shew patriotism. Only the 
secret wearing of the white robe of this great American 
society can give true patriotic satisfaction to the 
Britisher. 



ENTS 

George Bernard Shaw and the Drama . . . .J.H. Taylor 

En Voyage Jack Spector 

These Lectures Cagliostro 

Fantasy T. T. 

BOOKS 

Anatole France en Pantoufflts G. H. S. C. 

The Unknown Goddess S. 

St. Stephen’s Realm L.C. Tombs 

The Sailor Goodridge Macdonald 

Ascensions Vincent Starr 



Everyone knows that only Protestants are good 
men: therefore they alone can be British. And if 
any person should whisper that in the present mix- 
ture of races there is scarcely any White Race left, 
we trust he will not be believed. And since White 
has in the past universally been the symbol for purity, 
therefore it is obvious that the White Race should 
be supreme.. It is equally obvious that the Gentiles 
alone should be free. This is so self-evident that we 
need no proof, and of course it is quite compatible 
with “justice for all peoples.” Who could deny it? 
We have long ago forgotten that Christ was a Jew, 
and the rumour that Einstein, Freud, Lord Reading 
and other great persons of the day are Jews must 
obviously be false. Everyone knows that Disraeli, 
who was a Jew, was notoriously unpatriotic — a 
Bolshevik before his time. 

And as for Law and Order and Freedom from Mob 
Violence, we all well know how the Klan has striven 
for these ends. Almost every American newspaper, 
and several in Ontario, shew evidence of the extrem- 
ely law-abiding nature of the Klan’s operations. 

We can only say that we hope McGill will accord 
this organisation the welcome it deserves, namely 
to see it damned to limbo. 

• • 

T HERE has been a little unfavorable criticism of 
the McGill Literary and Debating Society, but 
we cannot agree with the general trend of it. It 
has been charged that the choice of debaters, 
through resting with the executive alone has been 
liable to unfairness. It is tolerably certain that 
favoritism and unfairness would exist, to some degree, 
in almost any conceivable body of human beings. The 
executive of the Literary and Debating Society is 



26 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



human, therefore finite, and therefore occasionally, 
perhaps, slightly unfair. The question is however, 
what body could possibly be assembled which would 
be more competent to judge of the qualities of debaters 
than the duly elected executive committee. The 
answer is obviously: none. 

There exists, nevertheless, a vulnerable point in 
the Literary and Debating Society, so often styled, 
affectionately but most inappropriately, the “Lit”. 
Why does this society continue to bear the word 
“Literary” in its name? To our knowledge, it has 
never conducted a single activity worthy of that part 
of its name. If it has, its literary sessions have been 
as subduedly retired as its Mock Parliament has been 
noisily public. 

A university of the size and standing of McGill 
ought to have a student literary society. We think 
that the “Lit”, should either change its title or make 
an effort to live up to all its implied pretensions. 
We suggest nothing of the type of a conversazione, 
where the tinkling of tea-cups would mingle with 
chatter about books and writers, or a heavy séance, 
where we should be invited to listen to an en- 
cyclopaedic paper on James Barrie or Wilkie Collins; 
we do suggest, rather, a few simple gatherings 
of students interested in contemporary literature and 
an intelligent criticism of it. At our ideal meetings 
the reading of speeches would be tabu and anybody 
speaking over five minutes at one standing would be 
frowned upon; tea drinking would be a penal offence, 
while conversation about Milton and Rafael Sabatini 
would be prohibited. 

• * • * 

W E wish to congratulate Mr. Eugene Forsey on 
being appointed one of the two Rhodes scholars 
from Quebec. No more representative all-round 
student could have been chosen to earn,' the name of 
McGill to Oxford. 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 

Editorial[Board : A.P.R. Coulbom, A.B. Latham, 
F.R. Scott, A.J.M. Smith. Managing Editor: L. 
Edel. 

The Editorial Board is responsible only for 
opinions expressed in the editorial columns, and 
hopes to publish articles on controversial questions 
by contributors of widely divergent views. 

MSS. may be submitted personally to any one 
of the editors, or mailed to The McGill Fortnightly 
Review, Apt. 16, 989 Atwater Ave., Montreal. 
Unsuitable contributions will be returned. 

Subscription rates are one dollar for this year’s 
complete issue. Cheques should be made payable 
to the McGill Fortnightly Review and sent to the 
Managing Editor at the above address. 



Saved by Grace or A Sign from Above 

Simeon Lamb 

T HEOPHILUS MUTCH had a second rate 
sensitive mind not in unity with itself. By nature 
indolent and placid, and only longing to be 
rocked to rest in the arms of a steadfast faith, Theo- 
philus would have been eminently fitted for the 
ministry had he not been inflicted with a doubting 
mind. True he struggled manfully with his doubt, 
but too often it overcame him. At the age of twelve, 
after a sleepless night spent in meditation and prayer, 
he came to the conclusion that there is no Santa Claus. 
Ten years later, when his ninth brother was born, 
having watched in vain for any sound or sight of the 
stork, he very reluctantly decided that the bird was 
a myth. It is almost impossible to estimate the pain 
and humiliation that this abandonment of his boy- 
hood faith inflicted upon the sensitive youth, and 
those who were at that time familiar with the lad 
state that the spiritual agony which he had endured 
could be inferred from his pale ascetic face, with its 
piously crossed eyes and its Heavenward pointing 
nose. 

To-night, however, the unity of his second rate 
sensitve mind was all at sixes and sevens. To-morrow 
he was to be promoted from Grade Va in the 
Sabbath school to Grade Vb. He felt that he 
was about to take a serious and fundamental 
step. But on the eve of what might almost be called 
a new life he was assailed by awful, and, as it seemed, 
unanswerable doubts. He paced his narrow chamber. 
To and fro. Then back again. Fro and to. What 
was to be done? Ha, he would go out into the cool 
night air and wander through the dark streets there 
to think things out. To think things out one had to 
go out, didn’t one? Very well then, he would go out. 

His new hat was reposing beside that of his father 
on the hall table, and little thinking how our every 
act is watched over by a beneficent Providence, he 
carelessly picked up the one nearest to his hand. 

For long hours he wandered through the dark 
streets, streets dark, perhaps, but lighter than a 
feather compared to the darkness of his mind. Alone 
with the stars and the street lamps he wrestled with 
himself — catch as catch can, but he couldn’t. His 
doubt was persistent, unanswerable, terrible. Was 
there, or was there not? Is there, or will there be? 
At last he prayed for some sign from above to settle 
the turmoil of his mind. 

Now it happened that at that moment he was 
passing beneath a window of a house in which a dilat- 
ory maidservant whose name was Grace was engaged 
in cleaning up. Just then, the girl without stopping 
to notice if anyone was below emptied a slop pail 
out of the window. The foul fluid descended full 
on the head of the rapt Theophilus, whose astonish- 
ment can be better imagined than described. His 
head and shoulders were soaked, the vile liquid ran 
into his eyes, ears, nose and mouth, and trickled in 
little streamlets down his vest and trousers, forming 
an expanding puddle at his feet. With a dread fear 
at his heart he bethought himself of his new hat. 
He snatched off his headgear, and examined 
it. But no, his new hat was safe unspoiled at home. He 
had absent-mindedly worn his father’s. 

“Ha, ha!” he cried, “there IS a God!” and he squel- 
ched his homeward way, happy and at ease again at 
last. 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



27 



This Life 

A. P. R. Coulborn 

T HE pain in my chest and back was growing less. 
With relief came a drowsiness. The doctor had 
been sitting in the farther corner of the room; 
to me it seemed miles away. Now he got up and came 
to the bedside; as he did so he grew bigger, gigantic 
as I thought. He held my wrist, and his face was 
grave. In the background I could see Griselda; her 
face drawn and she looked old. For the last few hours, 
or it might well have been years, I had been con- 
sciously struggling for life, but now the nearness of 
the others, and the touch of the doctor’s hand, seemed 
to relieve me of the burden of the struggle. Slowly 
I slipped into unconsciousness. 



# * * # 



I awoke, or as it seemed, came to life again with 
only a vague recollection of what had gone before. 
I realised a new and curious feeling, or more truly, 
absence of feeling. I felt completely and utterly calm. 
As I turned my head, I noticed that this absence of 
feeling extended to the physical: I did not sense my 
cheek touching the pillow. I was in my bed. The 
room was empty. 

Suddenly the door opened, and a man entered. 
Looking at him I remembered I had seen him before: 
as I looked more carefully I saw that this man was 
myself. He drew a chair to the bed and sat down, 
smiling. I felt no surprise. Then he spoke :- 
“What do you want to ask me?” 

“Tell me if you are real or a phantom,” I replied. 

“I am half real, and you are the other half;” said 
my other self, “We are in the Valley of the Shadow 
of Death. We are one of those favoured persons, who 
enter here and return for a space whence we came.” 
Myself. “I do not understand how I can be two 
persons.” 

My other self. “That is because you have as yet lived 
only in the flesh. The limitations of the material 
body curtail the function of the mind. It becomes 
hedged round with material ideas. Number is a 
delusion. There is no such thing as one and two; 
there is only great and small in quality. Quantity 
is the deception of material things.” 

Myself. “But how can great and small exist without 
size, and what is size but quantity?” 

My other self. “Size is a physical idea. It is indeed 
quantity, but quantity is only a mathematical 
way of understanding quality, and mathematics 
is the delusion which the flesh has created in 
order to conceive of reality. It is all unreal: it 
at once restricts mind from true thought, and 
enables it to a rule of thumb method of action. 
Once mind puts off the body, it is enabled to 
think.” 

Myself. “Why then do I still think mathematically? 
Why do I see two bodies? Why can I conceive 
of quality only with numbers? 

My other self. “Because you are not dead. You are 
come here only that you may see me, who am 
your spiritual complement, and return to live 
wiser.” 

Myself. “I still do not understand how I am two 
persons.” 



Haï-Kaïs 

L’araignée 

S ur l’immense affiche représentant une chasse à 
courre 

Une araignée oscille pendue au bout d’un fil. 
C’est le peintre. 

# • • • 

Surprise 

Cette vieille dame en noir 
Elle a mis un chapeau d’homme. 

Tiens, c’est un prêtre! 

* # • • 

Shoe shine parlour 
Le nègre fait briller les chaussures 
Mais le cuir qu’il fait mieux luire 
C’est le cuir de sa figure. 

* * * * 

Quick lunch 

Empalés sur des disques de bois 
Des insectes humains font mouvoir leurs bras 
Pères la colique à l’envers. 

• • • • 

Music hall 

La photographie de la danseuse 
Est vêtue d’une guitare. 

Sans doute qu’à l’intérieur 
Elle enlève sa guitare. 

R. de V A. 



My other self. “There are no persons, except in the 
flesh. Personality, individuality, identity — all this 
is an illusion. When you are in the world, you feel 
that creature which is yourself is different to 
you from other creatures which are not yourself 
but other individuals. You cannot explain this, 
for it cannot be known in quantity. It is a crudity 
— mechanical — necessary to the material 
cosmos. Here lies the secret of being: herein 
is the difference between being and material 
existence. This is the veil which hangs between 
time and eternity, space and infinity, using and 
having, calculating and knowing, symbol and 
reality, nothing and thing. Those five senses, 
which the mortal have are but clumsy instru- 
ments, the tools of a barbarian, wherewith he 
fashions the primitive necessaries of his crude 
existence. Within his body are contained all 
these limitations, and it is thus that his rudi- 
mentary mind must construct for itself the 
hypothesis of individuality, the division of spirit 
into units. When the mortal passes into death 
this blinding shroud is shed. Mind knows itself 
and becomes itself. No, it is not merged in divine 
mind; there is no oneness, for oneness implies 
severality. Simply mind becomes and is. Try 
no further to understand, for your mmd remains 
mortal, and so must it, for you are returning. 
Return, then, and ponder on this matter; thus 
shall you attain to the highest wisdom of the 
mortals, and pass easily into the beginning of 
death. I go.” 

He went towards the door, and I again became 
unconscious. When I returned to life again, I could 
feel the sweat upon my body; it was cold. I was very 
cold. The doctor’s two fingers were upon my heart. 
Griselda was holding my hand: her face was white 
and expressionless. I was conscious of thirst. 

“He is safe.” said the doctor. 



28 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



Counterblast Against “Vespasiano” 



F. J. Toole 



T he essay in defence of Slavery is interesting as 
being the first emergence in these halls of learning 
of a philosophy which has elsewhere been spread- 
ing for some twenty odd years. There is, of course, a 
logical argument for slavery, and the more ‘luxurious 
and artificial a civilisation becomes, the more cogent 
and powerful does this argument appear. There is 
no doubt that the introduction of a recognised and 
organised System of Slavery on the lines advocated 
by “Vespasiano” would greatly simplify, if indeed 
it did not wholly resolve, the problems under which 
modern civilisation is staggering; and it will perhaps 
interest the author of the article in debate to know 
that for some time powerful and intelligent interests 
have been working towards this desirable end. It 
may even be new to him that a very considerable 
mass of literature on the subject already exists in the 
English language; and he might do worse than make 
a start with “The Servile State” by Mr. Hilaire 
Belloc. 

It is possible that the principles on which the ser- 
vile state is being developed in England and Ger- 
many may not be quite the same as those held by 
“Vespasiano”. Thus I do not believe that his child- 
like faith in the infallibility of the psychologist would 
be shared by the other protagonists of the movement, 
although they would probably not be above using 
any science or pseudo-science (properly shackled and 
indexed, in the best traditions of serfdom) as a 
weapon. They indeed appear to be guided by the 
wholly understandable, and in my humble view rather 
more sensible, plan of enslaving all who have not the 
power to resist; and it is even probable that when they 
have succeeded “Vespasiano” and other powerful 
intellects will be on the wrong side of the prison 
bars. 

There are still however a few obstacles to this 
triumphal march of slavery, and the first of these is 
Christianity. In the somewhat obscure passage 
which opens the Defence it is implied that since 
slavery existed in the past it may exist in the future; 
but the classical examples of successful slavery 
flourished before the advent of that Religion which 
has changed the face of the earth, and I can hardly 
believe that “Vespasiano” has taken full advantage 
of the resources of the Redpath Library if he does 
not know that Christianity and Slavery are enemies 
unto death. It is only in the decline of Christianity 
(and these recurring periods of decline and revival are 
another mark of Christianity with which the learned 
author of the Defence may with profit become 
acquainted) that Slavery can lift up its bloody 
head. And through such a period of decline the 
Christian world is now passing. 

The second obstacle, which however depends for 
its strength on the first, is the institution which 
“Vespasiano” has dismissed with a careless abandon 
almost amounting to flippancy — Democracy. It is 
fashionable to laud the revolt of youth. But there 
is this disquieting thought connected with revolting 
youth — that revolt is about all it does. A little 
thought and decent learning would mix very well 



with that reckless dashing of ink over paper which 
is the modem form of revolt; but alas! our youth can- 
not revolt and think at the same time. This is well 
shown in the extraordinary history of democracy 
which forms the major part of the argument for 
slavery. It would be far easier, in dealing with this 
section, to deny every sentence in turn; for every 
argument essential to the development of the thesis 
is false. 

Thus, the fundamental doctrine of democracy 
that all men are equal is not especially a Socialist 
one; — it would be far more truthful to say it is a 
Christian and particularly a Catholic one. Socialism 
itself is certainly not democratic; and the interpreta- 
tion of the equality of mankind as meaning that 
men are equal mentally and physically is the sort of 
childish error into which a member of the “intelli- 
gentzia” would naturally fall. The weary list of 
“howlers” continues: That democracy rose with the 
Industrial Revolution is false; that the Napoleonic 
wars and the war of 1914 were fought because of prole- 
tarian chauvinism, is false: the first were fought by the 
French democracy in self defence, and the last was 
fought for certain ancient ideals, against an atheistic 
power in which the sei vile state was most highly 
developed. 

There is a confusion of ideas in all Vespasiano’ s 
arguments against democracy which almost baffles 
description. The proletariat did not exist until after 
the Industrial Revolution; and a little reading would 
soon convince any one that our grandfathers and 
great-grandfathers (if they had the luck to be the 
upper dogs) did all they could, short of general 
massacre, to keep the newly created class in its place. 

I do not see why the Fascist movement in Italy fails 
to impress “Vespasiano” as intelligent; although a 
still small voice persists in whispering that perhaps 
it is because he doesn’t know anything about the 
Fascist Movement in Italy — apart from what the 
“Saturday Evening Post” says about it. The fact is, 
however, that the Fascist movement saved democ- 
racy from something far worse than Mussolini and 
his dictatorship, and the Fascists at least are risking 
their lives for common Christian ideals against the 
establishment of the servile state of communism. 

The thesis that democracy has failed cannot be 
supported by any such childish arguments as those 
I have attempted to dissect. The truth is that democ- 
racy, like Christianity, is always failing — and always 
rising anew, a giant refreshed. The brain-sick pes- 
simist, the poor wretch whose common sense has been 
atrophied by the mechanical education provided 
by modem industrial civilisation, would do well to 
ask France and Poland, Switzerland and Ireland, 
Holland and Denmark and Quebec, whether democ- 
racy has failed; and to note in how many of these 
peasant states the Christian tradition is strong and 
healthy. It is only in those countries in which the 
superstitions of science and the worship of demons 
have prevailed over the Christian faith that democracy 
is in danger; and even in these the mass of the people 
is still imbued with those traditions which are all 
that separates our civilisation from the pagan sadness 
of Greece and the far worse evils of polished Carthage. 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



29 



A. Counterblast to Paradox 

C. T. Lane 

“T fespasiano” is usually excellent reading and in 

y the development of a paradox he is fertile, in- 
genious and forceful. He marshalls his arguments 
in logical order, builds up his material into a coherent 
whole and then proceeds to his conclusions with an 
unrelenting vigor. On a difficult, slender and delicate 
basis he weaves a fabric that glitters and at times 
even dazzles. I read him with enjoyment since it is 
not everyone to whom it is given to unlock the sur- 
prise box of paradox and give body and substance to 
its contents. 

But — I come to bury Caesar, not to praise him. 
Perhaps he will turn out to be a lively corpse who 
will refuse to stay buried. I hope so. Nothing is so 
amusing as controversy, a gentle art that appears 
to have died down of late years to letters to the press 
by “Fiat Justitia” and “Constant Reader”. Our 
despised grandfathers of the Victorian era at least 
knew how to fight. In this, my defiance to “Vespasi- 
ano,” I ask only a fair field and no favor. The gong 
has sounded; the seconds are out of the ring. Let’s 
g°. 

It is late in the day to find an advocate for slavery. 
It is still later in the day to prelude that advocacy 
with an appeal to Evolution. If it means anything 
at all, evolution is an orderly processus from lower to 
higher forms. How then can civilization proceed by 
evolution from the ideal of liberty to the much lower 
ideal of slavery? The essence of paradox is plausi- 
bility. There is nothing plausible in that position. 

Yet this is a digression. It is not to attack nor to 
defend slavery that I am pounding a typewriter. My 
aim is to impugn the value of paradox as a literary 
vehicle. 

Since the fin-de-siècle days of Oscar Wilde and his 
school and up to much more brilliant efforts of G. K. 
Chesterton, every minor novelist, poet and essayist 
has deluged the English-reading world with a flood 
of paradox. Lord, how sick we are of it! Imagine 
being fed for a year almost exclusively on chocolate 
eclairs! Imagine living for thirty years on paradox! 
There are no phrases in the whole rhetoric of abuse 
with which to express the loathing that one or the 
other infliction would arouse in the unhappy recipient. 
Nothing succeeds like excess. 

Paradox is only a small facet of a generally recog- 
nized truth. This facet is exalted and magnified 
until it is made to appear a new verity, whereas it is 
only a minor and often insignificant part of the whole. 
Its main purpose is to “épater le bourgeois.” In that 
aim of shocking people it has no less and no more 
literary value than a coalheaver’s oath. 

Fie, Vespasiano! Can you not place your fine talents 
in a better investment than so shop-soiled, discredited 
and outmoded a form? Heavens, I protest that even 
the movies will be taking it up soon. They have 
“discovered” Ben-Hur, Tess of the Durbervilles and 
the ouverture to William Tell. They are about due 
to pick up paradox for their subtitles. Will you sink 
as low as the movies? 

All men are born free and equal, says a famous 
work of fiction. You fall foul of liberty and equality. 
Why? I can’t for the life of me see why. You and 
I are free — within the usual limits, — free to steal 
each other’s girls (an easy task, one would imagine, 



since they must be fairly facile to permit either of 
us to flirt with them;)free to write to the Fortnight- 
ly; free even— horrid thought— to perpetrate paradox. 
Can Freedom go much further than that and who am 
I to condone and you tp enunciate the damnable 
theory that ninety and nine just persons should be 
denied this freedom and one sinner be allowed it? 

Vespasiano, I write more in sorrow than in anger. 
Yes, all men are equal— equal in folly; equal in the 
tragedy and pain and mystery of life; equal before 
the inscrutability of birth and of death. Why 
will you seek to deny it for the sake of a paltry 
paradox? Why do you cut a clown’s capers before 
the splendor of man’s upward march from ignorance 
and superstition? 

So I conclude with the New Gospel. There be three 
things, Liberty, Fraternity and Equality, and the 
greatest of these is Liberty. And there be three 
things, Paradox, Pettiness and Piffle, and the least 
of these is Paradox. 



To my Counterblasters— God Bless 

Them 

“Vespasiano” 

M e miserum! quanti montes volvuntur— 

verborum !” And I had almost fled, like the 
pious Aeneas, lest I should be engulfed in 
them. I should have done so, indeed, were my rep- 
utation only at stake, for I know that that can look 
after itself, (poor orphan!) But with my usual ideal- 
ism I have found it impossible to remain silent, when 
the principle I have lately been defending is jeopard- 
ised. 

My dear readers, I ask you whether it is fair to 
pretend that my perfectly serious defence of Slavery 
is brilliant paradox. Of course it is quite plain to ra a 
that naughty Mr. Lane thought thus to shake the 
convictions of my converts— who, I hear, are many— 
for who would continue to be a Disciple, having been 
persuaded that the Master was “cutting a clown’s 
capers before the splendour of man’s upward march 
from ignorance and superstition?” Oh, ko! 

Of Mr. Toole lean at least say that he is a gentle- 
man. He has taken me seriously. So I will be polite 
enough in return to argue with him for a few minutes 
It is nice of him to admit in his first paragraoh that 
I am right, and I should also like to thank Mr. Lane 
for his kind words in his opening paragraph, even 
though he says them slily. But neither Mr. Toole 
nor Mr. Lane seem to know their own minds. 
Mr. Toole goes on to talk at large about the wicked- 
ness of slavery, although he has already admitted 
that slavery “would greatly simplify, if indeed it 
did not wholly resolve the problems under which 
modem civilisation is staggering.” Mr. Lane 
after lauding me to the skies and saying that “it is 
not everyone to whom it is given to unlock the sur- 
prise box of paradox and give body and substance 
to its contents,” goes on to curse paradox to all eter- 
nity, saying finally, “there be three things, Paradox 
Pettiness and Piffle, and the least of these is Paradox.” 
Of course I know that Mr. Lane is being a fox over 
the paradox business, but I think he has done it 
badly. Personally I quite agree with him about 
paradox. 



30 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



If I were a little less wise than I am, I might think 
that Mr. Toole’s words about Christianity were as 
cynically said as Mr. Lane’s about paradox. But I 
do not think it. I believe Mr. Toole is as sincere as I 
am, and I shall continue to believe this às long as I 
can. But of course Mr. Toole is quite wrong. I should 
be very sony to think of my readers being led astray 
by the notion that Christianity is at enmity with 
Slavery. Nothing of the kind, and the Catholic 
Church least of all. On the question of whether 
Christianity really goes through alternating periods 
of rise and fall, I cannot accept the idea as readily as 
Mr. Tcole does, but in general I should be disposed 
to think so, on the ground of the Revolutionary 
Theory of Civilisation, which I accept. (Vide Flinders 
Petrie and others.) My own feeling, however, is 
that Christianity belongs to a much broader class 
of phenomena, which together form one stream in 
the revolutions, and that any one or more of them, 
Christianity included, might at some point in future 
revolutions have become so completely obscured 
and transmuted, that the practical historian would say 
it had ceased to exist. 

However this is a little irrelevant. As to Christianity 
and Slavery: may I tell Mr. Toole that Sir Francis 
Drake, when he captured negroes in West Africa 
and smuggled them into Spanish South America as 
slaves, piously believed that he did the negroes a 
good turn, since they would, as slaves to the Spaniards, 
be forced to become Christians? The early Portu- 
guese pioneers in Africa and India were under the 
same impression. When in 1381 the English serfs, 
who were not very materially different from slaves, 
rebelled against their lords, and John Ball sang: — 
“When Adam delved and Eve span, 

Who was then the gentleman?” 

John Wiclif averred that the rebellion was wicked. 
Luther, too, so far from sympathising with the German 
serf rebels of his time, egged on the temporal lords 
to suppress them. I know that both Wiclif and Luther 
were heretics, and, like Mr. Toole, I incline to favour 
orthodox Catholicism, but I am quite prepared, and 
I know he will be also, to grant that Wiclif and Luther 
were products of Christianity on the up-grade. And 
all these instances of successful Slavery are since the 
“advent of that Religion which has changed the face 
of the earth.” Another thing, Mr. Toole: to what 
religion do Mr Hillaire Belloc and Mr. G. K. Chest- 
erton belong, and what are their views on Slavery? 
If Mr. Toole would like any further instances of the 
affinity between Christianity and Slavery I will rush 
to the Redpath Library, which I admit I have not 
entered for seme years, and search for some. Perhaps 
he would like to come and help. 

My reference to the distinction between Progress 
and Evolution seems to have puzzled both my oppo- 
nents. I am sorry: I am a little indolent, and do not 
always take the trouble to make myself clear. The 
question is adequately treated, however, in Prof. 
J. B. Bury’s “Idea of Progress.” Mr. Lane is doubly 
wrong when he asks how “civilisation may proceed 
frem the ideal of liberty to the much lower ideal of 
slavery” — and moreover, he is begging the question. 
In the first place he is wrong about Evolution pro- 
ducing ever higher forms, and in the second he is 
wrong in saying that liberty is higher than Slavery. 

On the question of democracy, socialism and equal- 
ity, how, if socialism is not democratic, can it be that 
it has even a “not especial” claim to father the doc- 

( Continued on page 36) 



Two Poems 

The Lonely Land 

Group oj Seven 

C EDAR and jagged fir uplift 

Accusing barbs against the grey 
And cloud-piled sky; 

And in the bay 
Blown spume and windrift 
And thin, bitter spray 
Snap at the whirling sky; 

And the pine trees lean one way. 

Hark to the wild ducks’ cry 

And the lapping of water on stones 

Pushing some monstrous plaint against the 

[sky 

While a tree creaks and groans 
When the wind sweeps high. 

It is good to come to this land 
Of desolate splendour and grey grief, 

And on a loud, stony strand 
Find for a tired heart relief 
In a wild duck’s bitter cry, 

In grey rock, black pine, shrill wind 
And cloud-piled sky. 



Epitaph 

Stranger, weep not on this stone: 

I, who moulder here 

Where sturdy roots divide the bone 

And tendrils split a hair, 

Bespeak you comfort from the grass 
That is embodied Me 
Which as I am, not as I was, 

Would choose to be. 

A. J. M. Smith 



Sonuet 

O NE day you asked me to define delight. 

And love being new to me, I said “To feel 
The swift oblivion of those who steal 
Passion from willing lips — that is delight”. 

Wonderingly then you whispered “And despair?”. 
“There comes a time when these material joys 
Play truant to the sense, and love employs 
In vain his stratagems — that is despair”. 

Then down long days of deepening intercourse 
We fared together, through all ease and pain, 
Desire, and coldness, knowing that the force 
Of our late love outmatch’d youth’s passionate reign. 

And when death sealed thy lips to me, I knew 
How false had been my answers — and how true. 

Brian Tuke. 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



31 



George Bernard Shaw and the Drama 

J. H. Taylor 

I T is not often that an artist can discipline himself 
to the extent of formulating his treatment of his 
own particular field of art into a coherent theory. 
Perhaps the most important reason for this is that 
self-examination, together with a comparative study 
of his fellow artists ill fits a personality largely creative 
in nature, to confine the essence of what he deems 
inexpressible except through his own particular art, 
in a theoretical bottle labelled — “Logical tincture 
of my Art. — Dose when ailing”. No one believes that 
the so called rules of art will ever make an artist. Yet 
on the other hand, no one can deny that ideas and 
theories based on them exist which have produced 
types of art that claim peculiar advantages and view- 
points. It is true that these claims are usually stoutly 
denied, and perhaps most, by the spontaneously 
creative artist, who is too busy developing his 
technique to listen to doubtful answers to difficult 
and seemingly unnecessary questions. However it 
cannot be denied that much of what is great and most 
of what is original particularly in method, has been 
so stimulated. He will develop his art and give it 
to the world often content that another should make 
a fool of himself by trying to explain what everybody 
fondly believes they already understand. 

Whether we class drama as one of the fine arts or 
not it is in the same dilemma. We have on the one 
hand a Molière, essentially a creative genius who did 
not busy himself so much with a theory of the drama, 
or even with conforming to the current one, as he did 
with pleasing the man in the pit; on the other a G.B.S. 
who subjugates everything to the idea, who, in what 
he has called the “Problem Play” has introduced the 
“Drama of Thought”. It is often claimed that the 
plays of Shaw constitute a new dramatic system. 
In the Authors Apology from “Mrs Warren’s Profes- 
sion” he writes — “ — the fashionable drama has be- 
come so flaccid in its sentimentality, and the intellect 
of its frequenters so atrophied by disuse that the 
réintroduction of problem with Us remorseless logic 
and iron framework of fact inevitably produces at 
first an overwhelming impression of coldness and 
inhuman rationalism. — And it will be seen that only in 
the problem play is there any real drama because drama 
is no mere setting up of the camera to nature — ” The 
use of the word camera instead of mirror is significant. 
And again “I am convinced that fine art is the sub- 
tlest, the most seductive, the most effective means 
of propagandism in the world”. 

Due to G. B. S. ’s limited conception of the drama, 
due to his self-confessed purpose, due to the exercise 
of his native wit and sociological insight at the ex- 
pense of all the dramatic material available to the 
hand of the truly dramatic artists, he has been faced 
from the very outset with a seemingly insurmountable 
obstacle. This was the task of writing a successful 
play consisting almost solely in “mental action”. 
“Physical action”, emotionalism and sentiment 
(which he detests), passion and intrigue, — all these 
things reek of the conventional drama. No wonder 
that G. B. S. boasts that his works are not in accord 
with the traditional concepts of the drama. He would 
as soon sit down to a dinner of roast beef, wine and 
cigars as pay tribute to what we are pleased to call 



the old masters of the drama; as forego the oppor- 
tunity of roundly criticising the Enlgishman Shakes- 
peare. Shaw has no taste for anything popular, he 
does’nt see and feel with the crowd, and he is proud of 
it. He is a great thinker, a strong character, a rebel. 
He shocks people, — and quite rightly. Instead of 
trying to reflect nature and existing life he attacks 
it, and this he can only do on rational grounds and 
by rational methods. The grindstone of “moralist 
realism” puts a keen edge of ridicule on his axe of 
destruction, and this to make the decapitation of 
our “delusions” the more complete, as the anaesthetic 
of wit is to make it the more painless. His fearless 
attack on convention and smug propriety; his power 
of making people laugh at them while at the same 
time making the same people think is the secret of 
his greatness. 

The success of G. B. S. has been attained in spite 
of the critics chiefly because in the main they lacked 
understanding, or the industry necessary to attain it. 
That his works are great, original, and so on cannot 
be denied. What is now needed is a greater man, 
whose work will couple the fearless rationalism, wit, 
and audacity of Shaw with a more natural realism. 
The more G.B.S. exercises the intellect of his audience 
to the exclusion of that appeal to the senses charac- 
teristic of the truely dramatic the more he limits the 
appeal of his play; the more he approaches the mere 
literary form which can be obtained from the printed 
page; the more his actors become Shavian puppets to 
which the strings are dimly visible; the more unnat- 
ural his setting, and therefore the more limited his 
appeal to the theatregoing public. The statement 
that his appeal is limited however does not imply that 
it is less strong on that account since as, in Shaw’s case, 
a man may blow his own horn on the one note until 
the walls of Jericho are vanquished. Yet it would’nt 
charm a serpent, let alone a lover. That the appeal is 
there, that the type of farce which subjects the 
audience to a mental-moral cold shower is popular, 
the sucess of his plays testifies. What is the key note 
of this? If the actors never moved, a Shaw play would 
lose none of its main appeal because it depends partly 
upon a characteristic Irish wit, partly upon a ruthless 
introduction of unorthodox and daringly unexpected 
developments, and upon inversions, both of ideas 
and rôles. This latter is what constitutes the greater 
part of his comedy. Some years ago a prominent 
London Cartoonist suggested that the peculiar appeal 
of his plays might by heightened be making up 
every character to represent the great G.B.S. himself . 
Who can tell what success this new type of farce might 
have had if only someone had taken this suggestion 
seriously? 

On looking at the drama we are as minor gods 
regarding a scene of the “Divine Comedy” of mankind 
laid out before us. What it took man centuries of 
pain and struggle to learn, and embody into ethical 
theories and religions, we see vividly portrayed, ap- 
pealing to eye, ear, imagination and reason, and not 
merely to the last alone, that is to say we come to 
know and value that which we judge as worthy and 
inducive to better understanding and guidance in the 
ramifications of daily life. The course of natural 
events is often so involved and subtle as to veil the 
application of the great ethical theories so evolved 
governing human action. Nevertheless in considering 
this application no facts must be omitted, no situation 
distorted no matter how well established our ethical code 



32 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



may be. If having faithfully reproduced nature we 
find something lacking, or not fitting in, then we must 
turn to our ethical theories, to our moral platitudes 
and revise them. But to falsify the reproduction, to 
distort facts and deliberately lie to, or hide things 
from an audience is the unpardonable dramatic sin. 
Shaw’s problem plays test the ethical ideas of the 
audience. A critical or unusual situation arises in 
which it is difficult to find a solution in the light of 
current morals. It is true that the finding of this 
solution often points to foolish or pernicious, social, 
religious or national customs or traits but it is also 
true that an author’s enthusiasm for test problems 
may lead him astray. Humans are not essentially 
rational, particularly in their actions. Whims, fancies, 
hatreds, loves, prejudices, and so on all introduce 
sudden complications which would perhaps present a 
more legitimate field for an investigation by means 
of the Theory of Probabilities. 

Moreover these human traits and the complications 
resulting from them, not only constitute the life and 
“natural realism” of the play itself but determine 
the thoughts and feelings induced in the audience by 
the play, rather than as a logically simple “remorse- 
less” problem. This causal flux of human nature 
together with the moral judgments involved is deter- 
mined and interpreted individually on viewing a true 
drama just as in the real world of events. However it 
is the legitimate function of the dramatist to simplify 
this task for a none too acute audience. By bringing 
such a reflection of the actual world before it as an 
entity, clearly and forcefully, to be viewed at ease. 
It is at once the privilege, amusement, education and 
duty of the audience to interpret this slice of nature 
according to their own lights. Indeed it is absurd to 
expect them to do otherwise. Hence the onlooker 
is instructed in the school of experience of life. But 
if the author distorts his mirror in order to advance 
some pet idea or ethical theory he commits a dramatic 
crime in that he lies and deceives. However if he 
wishes to support such an idea by an example either 
taken actually from life or bearing all the earmarks 
of human probability and natural causality, he is 
justified, but when he draws on his imagination he 
must guard against the probability that his idea is 
more likely to be false than true. Existence in an imag- 
inative mind is no guarantee of existence in the 
world of events, and it is difficult to support the 
philosophical thesis that all or any particular one of 
an infinite number of possible imaginary worlds, exist. 

If the drama carries any obligation at all it is to 
teach, not by preaching or moralizing, with the con- 
sequent infliction of personal opinions and judgments, 
but by portrayal. A distortion or lack of appreciation 
of the continuity of events, together with the factors, 
volitional or otherwise, that come into play, falsifies 
the judgment, and we are faced by a false solution 
to an unreal problem. Perhaps the best silvering that 
the dramatist can back his mirror with is extremely 
exact and minute characterisation. By means of this 
he links an understandable causal chain between his 
characters, and between them and natural events. 
G.B.S. succeeds in “Mental characterisations” as 
perhaps no predecessor did, but in the delineation of 
personal character, of the bio-physical make-up of the 
man, he fails as miserably as Shakespeare scores 
brilliantly. 

Goethe, one of the great dramatic mastery of all 
time, wrote in a letter;-“I do not object to a dramatic 



poet having a moral influence in view; but when the 
point is to bring his subject clearly and effectively before 
his audience, his moral purpose proves of little use, and 
he needs much more a faculty for delineation and a 
familiarity for the stage to know what to do and what 
to leave undone. If there be a moral in the subject it will 
appear, and the poet has nothing to consider but the 
effect and the artistic treatment of the subject. I cannot 
but think that Schiller’s turn for philosophy injured 
his poetry because this led him to consider the idea 
far higher than all nature, indeed thus to annihilate 
nature. What he could conceive must happen, whether 
it were in conformity with nature or not”. There is no 
criticism of G.B.S. more damning than this, and per- 
haps it is the only one, that everything is subordinate 
to his idea, his problem, around and out of which a 
play is woven. Even G.B.S. himself must admit that 
in the world of events the process is reversed; that 
there the problem is only an expression of man’s 
peculiar reaction to his environment, a reaction which 
is a function not only of all his own previous 
experience, but that of his parents before him. 

It is Shaw in the play, in the ripping up of precedent, 
convention and custom, in the sparkling wit and satire 
of the lines; Shaw the intellectual, the inhuman (or 
should we say Superhuman?) in the very characters 
themselves, that doom him as an exponent of a 
superior drama, even as it enthrones him as one of 
the most brilliant and farseeing writers of the century. 
But in spite of Henry Arthur Jones, literature is not 
drama, although the two should be very intimately 
related one to another, yet the latter stripped of 
its dramatic characteristics, if it has any, may take 
its place alongside of the best literature of the time. 



En Voyage 



B risk, easy-rolling, smooth-swerving, light- 
rattling of the railway train. 

Bird-like swooping of saplings, and erect marching 
of firs, balsams and birches. 

Lazy mastodon clouds against the fading dimmed 
blue evenness of the evening sky. 

Yawning men and women dreamily wafting into 
nothingness. 

Shrill-resounded screeching of the engine— a steam 
cacodemon’s mad chant of subjugation. 

Glittering of multitudinous light-drops upon the 
whimpled surface of the night. 

HOME. 



Jack Spector 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



33 



These Lectures 

Cagliostro 

O ne hears nowadays at our universities a world 
of talk and discussion (especially among euro- 
paeomaniacs and youth movers) about the lecture 
system and its compulsory character. We have rid 
ourselves, most of them say, of compulsory military 
training and compulsory chapel attendance; why, 
therefore, do we not also bring about the abolition 
of compulsory class attendance? 

The word “compulsory” is a disagreeable one, and 
at first blush the propaganda of these professor- 
baiters seems very reasonable. However, after a 
careful consideration of their views, one sees the 
distinctly irrational basis for them. It is assumed 
that, if lecture attendance were made optional, unpop- 
ular lecturers would be obliged to superannuate 
and that students would occupy their time with 
taking notes from reliable text-books rather than 
from soporific pedants. 

Nevertheless, there are counter considerations 
to think on — principally two. The first is that impor- 
tant one which the young revolutionaries have ap- 
parently never so much as dreamed about. It is 
probably a fact that most youngsters come to college 
with- the express purpose, wittingly and knowingly, 
of being bored. This troupeau of graduates from 
high schools and refined female boarding schools 
has been brought to maturity by preceptors and 
preceptresses on the rigid didactic theory that sub- 
mission to boredom is an indispensable experience 
in mind development. What a howl of indignation 
there would be, then, if this large number of mental 
culturists were to be told that they were no longer 
obliged to attend lectures. To them being herded 
into crowded class rooms is the essence of education, 
and definite periods of confinement with positive 
bores is the pith of pedagogy. These students are 
mostly inarticulate, and I pen these lines with the 
intention of presenting their point of view and with 
the hope that a knowledge of the serpentine 
tactics of the professor-deposers may awaken them 
out of their dumbness. 

The other point of opposition to the student 
Radicals is the quite legitimate, though perhaps 
hackneyed, criticism so often levelled by the intellec- 
tual element of the bourgeoisie at adherents of heret- 
ical theories of state. The opinions of the anti-lecture 
school are destructive; they have nothing to offer in 
the place of the shattered monuments of antiquity; 
(Such an attack from the more conservative of us 
is indeed unanswerable!) In order to comprehend 
this rebuttal, let us take the lecture system as it is. 
With the practical abolition of a large number of 
lectures, as the proposed scheme would in effect 
entail, there would be an actual loss of something 
tangible. It is absurd to suggest that reading would 
be an equivalent substitute; as a matter of fact, most 
students cannot really read. Society has taken far 
too long to unravel itself (as the Germans say), for 
us to presume to chuck overboard immediately any 
such important part of it as the compulsory lecture. 
Vested interests must always be reverently respected, 
and thousands of boring university instructors have 
very real vested interests in their immemorial preroga- 
tive to bore. 

I shall now take the reader into my confidence, and 
tell him that I myself am opposed to compulsory 



Fantasy 

L OVE, in a burst of joy. 

Took a hop, skip and a jump, 

And describing an utterly fantastic curve 
Lit on a mountain peak. 

There he strung his bow with a gossamer thread, 
Fashioned an arrow of mistletoe, 

Tipped it with a briar thorn, 

Tufted it with a dandelion seed, 

And shot it — Whish! — UP. . . .up.î . up. . . .up. . . 
It fell to earth 

In an undeviating mathematical curve, 

Piercing even to the loricated heart of a cheese- 

[monger. . . .] 

Clumsily, uncontrollably, and quite improperly 
He planted a heavy kiss on the neck of his youngest 

[dairy-maid. 

Whereat his wife, a maliciously observant woman, 
Stunned him with a savoury Stilton. 

So Love unstrung his bow, 

Recalled the errant shaft, 

Broke the gossamer thread, 

Replaced the briar thorn, 

Planted the dandelion seed, 

And sorrowfully removed to the Vale of Innocent 

[Shadows.] 

T. T. 



lectures and their painful comrade, compulsory note- 
taking. I have taken the step of disclosing my own 
views not to discourage those who really favor forced 
sessions in the stifling atmosphere about the unin- 
triguing word geniuses, but rather to bring forth what 
I hold to be a seasoned theory of the lecture and a 
constructive system of university polity. 

When the Revolution of 1917 took place in Russia, 
there was not, as is popularly supposed, a grand 
holiday for infernal-machine manufacturers. What 
actually happened was that the governmental 
machinery of the trades union had become so vastly 
more efficient than the theoretically sovereign ma- 
chinery of the debauched clique of Muscovite war 
lords, that the reigns of sovereignty shifted perforce 
to where they rightfully belonged. 

Let us analogize university intellectual clubs (at 
McGill, such institutions as the Players’ Club, the 
Cercle Français, the Political Economy Club, the 
Psychological Club, etc.) with the trades unions of 
1917 Russia. Such clubs are operated on the theory 
by meeting together to discuss the subjects in which 
they are interested. In their meetings professors 
play a minor rôle or no rôle at all. When these various 
organizations adopt the theory that lectures imposed 
from above are inefficient just as the Russian trades 
unions adopted the theory of Communism, then they 
can gradually bring their programme into force, as 
follows. First, they must increase their activities so 
as really to compete with the class-room meetings. 
Secondly, only those professors who are acceptable 
to the students may be invited to their colloquia. 
Thirdly, they must, after an interval, start regular 
lecture courses to be given by the acceptable profes- 
sors. Lastly, they must be prepared to undergo a 
certain amount of harsh criticism. 

The only remaining problem in my scheme is that 
of dispensing with the regular university lectures, 
and ipso facto the impossible lecturers. But here, 
perhaps, I am getting out of my field. 



34 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



B OOKS 

Anatole France en Pantouffles 

By M. Brousson 

( Bernard Grasset) 

T his is an amusing book. M. Brousson was secre- 
tary to Anatole France during the latter’s last years 
and he has here set down the passing comments 
of M. Bergeret on the trivialities of his private life. 
The little monologues — for it is France who talks — 
are presented briefly with a touch of sympathetic 
malice which preserves them from becoming tedious. 
He tries on a night cap, wheedles his housekeeper, 
calumniates his friends and inveighs against the 
“laissez aller romantique” . The result is a slyly 

charming sketch of an old man, skeptical and Volt- 
airian. But it is intimate only in the domestic sense. 
As the discursive irony proceeds it becomes apparent 
that it is the famous dressing gown which is being 
displayed for our amusement. France himself eludes 
us wrapped in his opinions. 

“Mon cher enfant, combien cette société après laquelle 
nous soupirons sera maussade. Ne me parlez pas de 
cette cité de Dieu, ou il n’y aura ni anliquairiste ni 
bouquinistes ni marchands d’estampes. L’idéal, voyez- 
vous, c’est encore la petite boutique parisienne....” 
Here one chatters with the wily owner of the stall 
who too knows his rôle. It is the classical point of 
view— taste is the final arbiter. Like Stendhal he 
finds himself in the solid worlds of sight and touch. 

G. H. S. C. 

The Unknown Goddess 

By Humbert Wolfe 

(. Methuen & Co.) 

M r. Humbert Wolfe, whose witty parodies and 
clever light verse have gained an enviable 
reputation in England, has produced a brilliant 
first volume of serious poetry. But the brilliance of 
these poems is one which sparkles without cat- 
ching fire. Emotion, which is never absent, 
here achieves a frigid ecstasy and a beauty as brittle 
and as cold as moonlight glinting on a snow crystal. 
As a technician, Mr Wolfe commands admiration. 
His frequent and skilful use of assonance and half 
rhymes combined with a deft manipulation of his 
consonants is responsible for a fragile music that is 
definitely and individually his. The music of these 
poems is a thin and clear blowing of the horns of 
Elfland, at least an octave higher — but not shrill — 
than that of any other poet who is at the same time a 
conscious musician. Sometimes what is primarily 
music freezes to a sculptured attitude, as in such a 
perfect Parnassian poem as “The Garden Images’’; 
sometimes, but not often, it is the visual, perception 
which startles us with its vivid impressionistic 
painting as in a description of “the blossoms 
spurting, like matches, into flame on the almond tree”. 

In his love poems, Mr. Wolfe shows himself as an ex- 
quisite subtlist: a sort of immaculate — and a little 
emasculate — lesser Donne, a Donne in whom the 
brutality of passion has been diluted by a refined 
aestheticism. As a first book, “The Unknown God- 
dess” is a brilliant promise, trembling on the verge 
of fulfilment. And it contains poems such as “Iliad”, 
“Things Lovelier”, “The Changing Spirit of Man” 
and “Envoi” whose keen tempered beauty seems 
destined for no early oblivion. S. 



St. Stephen ’s Realm 

L. C. Tombs 

A first, unexpected visit to Hungary fifteen months 
ago induced a second and equally fascinating 
stay m the land of the Magyars, the most 
charming and chivalrous people in Europe. One who 
reads books of Hungarian travel and converses with 
persons who knew Old Hungary gives no credence to 
the weird stories of “Hungarian propaganda” too 
often spread by the “Little Entente”. The Magyar 
of all classes consistently maintains his tradition of 
noble manliness and a hospitality which, in its sincerity 
and quaint simplicity, seems to savour of the Middle 
Ages. Few people in Canada, or even England, realise 
that there is in Europe to-day a state which only 
emerged from mediaevalism some seven decades ago 
The aristocracy and intelligentsia actually spoke 
Latin until well into the last century. The Hungarian 
romanüc and proud, devoted to a cherished tradition 
of holy and apostolic” kingship, carries on a flourish- 
ing agricultural system in a society which has not 
altogether lost its feudal aspect. 

The English-speaking student, remembering 
Hungary as one of “Our late enemies” and frequently 
hearing that country denounced as “reactionary” 
and militaristic” by the “Little Entente”, and, with 
perhaps more truth, as the oppressor of subject 
peoples, usually knows and cares little about this 
unique state. Hungary, for centuries under the heel 
ot lurk and Austrian, was transformed so suddenly 
from a mediaeval colony of the Empire to at least 
the semblance of a modem European state that the 
liberal principles of Kossuth, and to a more whole- 
some degree of Déak and Eôtvôs, were not carried 
il n spirit by Magyar statesmen in the latter part 
of the nineteenth and present century. The Treaty 
of Trianon reduced the thousand-year old kingdom 
to less than one-third of its area and placed three and 
a half million Magyars under alien rule. Admitting 
the attempted Magyarisation of pre-war Hungary, 
it seems strangely wonderful that even now one finds 
witlun the present frontiers many compact and scat- 
tered colonies of people speaking German, Slovak, 
Groat and other tongues, and retaining their old 
national customs. It is not widely known that the 
section south-west of the city of Budapest remains 
almost entirely German and German-speaking. Up 
to the middle of the nineteenth centurv there was 
only one theatre m Pest and it was German. Hungary 
is reactionary” because, as a vanquished and mutil- 
ated nation, it bravely and successfully raised its 
head after four months of Bolshevik misrule and one 
hundred days of thieving Rumanian occupation. The 
national^ government directed by Admiral Horthy 
was so reactionary that it actually sent Hungarian 
troops to oppose the restoration of King Charles in 
1 92 i when considerable Hungarian blood flowed out- 
side Budapest. The army of “militaristic” Hungary 
is according to the peace treaty, restricted to 35,000 
men. Yet more significant, the “Little Entente”, 
composed of Czecho-Slovakia, Rumania and Yugo- 
slavia, powerfully armed by France, and numbering 
lorty millions of people to Hungary’s own seven 
millions, surrounds this kingdom. I was told by a 
Hungarian friend that the mere shot of a rifle on a 
shooting expedition near the Hungaro- Rumanian 
frontier provided the excuse for the recent massing 
of Rumanian troops on the boundary. There are no 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



35 



petty, irritating restrictions on personal liberty in 
Hungary; absolute law and order exists with complete 
freedom of the press. The Commissioner-General of 
the League of Nations in Budapest, Mr. Jeremiah 
Smith, a Boston banker, as may be seen from his 
latest report to Geneva, praises the courageous and 
successful manner in which Hungary has tackled its 
great problem of reconstruction. There is a distinct 
improvement in the financial situation this year 
largely owing to a bountiful harvest. The income of 
the Hungarian government now balances state ex- 
penditure. It is possible to devote the greater part 
of the loan sponsored by the League two years ago 
for purposes of investment within the kingdom. The 
wise and moderate government of the Regent, Admiral 
Horthy, led by the Prime Minister, Count Bethlen, 
instead of a premature restoration of the monarchy 
and agitation for a revision of frontiers, have wisely 
sought first to rebuild Hungary’s shattered economic 
fabric. This is exceedingly difficult since the unity 
of the basin of the Middle Danube was destroyed in 
the realignment of frontiers. 

M. de Monzie, a recent French Minister of Finance, 
in his sympathetic preface to M. Charles Tisseyre’s 
“Un Erreur Diplomatique: La Hongrie Mutilée” 
says that this is the time not for a revision of treaties 
but for a dispassionate revision of ideas. And he is 
right. Mr. Lloyd George and Signor Nitti have lately 
stated that a reconsideration of the central and eastern 
European frontiers will come sooner or later. 
Hungary’s strongest case, I feel, is in the storehouse 
of Magyar individuality and liberty, Transylvania, 
now included in a corrupt Rumania swollen to more 
than twice its pre-war area. I have met Transylvanian 
secret state police (“Siguranca”), so lately denounced 
by Mr. Fornu Costa, a former Rumanian Minister 
of the Interior, in his book calling for the abolition 
of this insidious body. The strong Catholic point of 
view of the Slovaks and Ruthenians in the struggle 
between the free-thinking Czech Government (and 
Bohemia generally) and the Vatican may prove aus- 
picious for Hungary which is, in the main, Catholic. 
The unitary, rather than federal, Kingdom of the 
Serbs, Croats, and Slovenes, set up by Belgrade, by no 
means satisfies the Croats and Bunyevaces (Catholic 
Serbs.) An ultimate Middle European Federation, 
following an arbitrary 7 revision of the frontiers — we 
are already hearing of another “Locarno pact” — is 
greatly to be desired. 

The magnificent contribution of Hungary to the 
fine arts was, and is, the happier and more fruitful 
result of the reawakening of the Magyar spirit in the 
last century. Count Stephen Széchenyi, a forbear of 
the present Hungarian Minister to the United States, 
founded one hundred years ago the Academy of 
Sciences, and stimulated the revival of Magyar 
culture. In music, Liszt towers above all. In letters 
we find the poets, Arany and Petôfi; Jokai, the 
romantic novelist; and the Barons Eôtvôs, father and 
son, educator and physicist. Budapest, a splendid 
city of over a million inhabitants, contains two uni- 
versities and several noteworthy museums and art 
galleries, two grand opera houses and at least six 
repertoire theatres. Lehar, of “Merry Widow” fame, 
is a Hungarian and brother of one of late King Charles’ 
staunchest supporters. Plays of Molnar, Herczegh 
and Lengyel are frequently seen in many countries. 
Quite recently three contemporary Hungarian plays 
were produced in London simultaneously. 



The Sailor 



A greasy skyline where the grey 
Unending billows roam, 

A lifting bow-wash, breaking spray, — 

These bound the sailor’s home 

A month or two. Then port is made, 

And in some Sailor Town 
At Frisco, Rio, Adelaide 
His shillings rattle down 

For wine and women; — double rums, 

Vermouth and British beer, — 

A gold-haired wench to steal his purse 
And call him “Jackie, dear.” 

Then comes the squat-nosed harbour tug 
To hail him out to sea; 

The bell-buoys clang, the shore lights flash 
In sullen ecstasy, 

And standing watch upon the peak 
He dreams of lips and hands, 

Drugged liquor and a painted cheek, 

And sighs, nor understands 

That he’s a dreamer, and the call 
That made a fool of him 
In Hamburg and in Montreal, 

Still to the wide sea’s rim 

Must lure him on with hint of wine 
More fragrant, and of lips 
Unpainted, luscious, half divine 
To men who sail in ships. 

Goodridge Macdonald 



The history of the universities of Hungary, part- 
icularly that of the University of Kolozsvar, since 
the conclusion of the Great War, is a stirring and 
touching one. Months before the conclusion of the 
peace treaties the Rumanian government disbanded 
the university at Kolozsvar (the German “Klausen- 
burg”; the Rumanian “Cluj”) and it was later tempo- 
rarily transferred to Szeged. The University of 
Pozsony (alias Pressburg; alias Bratislava) in the 
old cultural centre of Hungary is now to be found in 
the town of Pécs near the Yugo-Slav frontier. The 
Hungarian student, who has been tossed about like a 
shuttlecock, is a delightful fellow who describes, in very 
excellent English, not only the misfortunes of his coun- 
try but also his (at times) numerous love affairs. And 
he is able to be his real Magyar self if there is nearby 
one of the incomparable gypsy (“csigane”) bands 
whose intoxicating “csardas” notes transport him 
from sorrow and care to the hope and joy of a dawn- 
ing to-morrow. 

The motto of Petôfi, which might well be that of 
every Hungarian, rendered in its imperfect English 
translation, runs as follows 

“Freedom and love will ever be 
“The highest bliss of life for me. 

“Life would I yield for love’s sweet sake, 
“Or love, should freedom be at stake”. 



V 



36 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



To my Counterblasters — God Bless Them 

( Continued from page 30) 

trine that all men are equal, which Mr. Toole admits 
to be the basis of democracy? And why does Mr. 
Toole uphold Fascism, when he admits that it in- 
volves a dictatorship? I believe that the wicked 
fellow only does it because I let go an innocent little 
sneer at Fascism. At this point Mr. Lane again in- 
volves himself in a contradiction. Says he, “All men 
are bom free and equal, says a famous work of fic- 
tion.” Quite so, an admirable piece of irony, worthy 
of “Punch;” but why finish up “There be three things, 
Liberty, Fraternity and Equality, and the greatest 
is Liberty?” Mr. Toole thinks that I am wrong in 
supposing that human equality means a physical 
and mental equality. Fortunately there is no need 
for me to argue this point: Mr. Lane has done it for 
me, where he is talking about inscrutability and 
mystery and death and those things. I suppose he 
means that the pain and birth and death are the 
physical, and the mystery and inscrutability the 
mental: the tragedy, I take it, is both, and perhaps 
the pain is too. So there, Mr. Toole. 

With regard to the Napoleonic Wars and the French 
Democracy in self-defence, I should like to know if 
self-defence involves overrunning all Europe? Now 
if Mr. Toole had attacked me here on the ground 
that the Napoleonic Wars were brought about by 
cruel Napoleon, who had reduced the French people 
to slavery, he would of course have been quite wrong, 
but it would have been a much stronger argument. 
As to the war of 1914, I think an elementary know- 
ledge of Economics would lead Mr. Toole to modify 
views about “ancient ideals.” And Germany was 
not an atheistic power: witness the late Kaiser’s 
frequent pious exclamation, “Gott mit uns!” 

I have a few further remarks, more particularly 
directed to my readers. I never heard that Greece 
or its paganism was “sad”, and, to be quite honest, 
I should rather like to have lived in “polished Car- 
thage.” I am sure it would have been better than 
unpolished America. I should like some kind person 
to collect a “Chocolate éclair Fund” for Mr. Lane, 
and I hope nobody will be prejudiced by his remarks 
about the movies. I do not belong to the intelligent- 
zia, nor do I ever spill my ink on the paper: if I do 
spill it, it always goes on my clothes. I hope every- 
one will remember what Mr. Lane said about the 



Typewriting 

MISS WRAY 

Essays, 

Lectures, 

Mimeographing, 

Multigraphing. 

411 Drummond Building 
Corner Peel & St. Catherine 
Uptown 0127 



Ascensions 

H E dreamed ascension of those heights 
Where cloudy fishes swim. 

Under the alternate blacks and whites 
A small, green mound is over him. 

Nevertheless, think not he has fallen low; 

Earth has not stepped on his conceit: 

He climbs where he could never go 
On merely mundane feet. 

Vincent Starr. 



coalheaver’s oath, and endeavour to forget what 
Mr. Toole said about “b — - — -y slavery.” I should 
like to thank Mr. Toole for his suggestion about 
Hilaire Belloc, but I will not read him. Neverthe- 
less, seeing that Mr. Toole meant well, I should like 
to recommend him, in return, to go a little further 
back and try Nietzsche. By all means search the 
history of France, Poland, Switzerland and Ireland, 
Holland and Denmark and Quebec: you will find 
lots about democracy in at least half of them, and it 
will not edify you. 

Finally, do not look upon me as Caesar: it would 

embarrass me On the whole, dear readers, I 

think you will agree with me that Mr. Toole’s and 
Mr. Lane’s efforts are adequate proof of the necessity 
of slavery, and justification of my thesis. 



Tel. Uptown 6834 



Burton s Limited 

Booksellers & Stationers 

597 St. Catherine St. West 
Montreal, P. Q. 

Êetween Drummond and Mountain Sts. 



